

===== PDF PAGE 1 ===== (images: 1: [3])


===== PDF PAGE 2 ===== (images: 0: [])


===== PDF PAGE 3 ===== (images: 0: [])
Praise for Dr. Patrick Tran and Burn-In
“Most doctors get into medicine to serve the greater good and
help us all live better, stronger and longer lives, which then
negatively impacts their own health and family life. In Burn-In,
Patrick Tran shows how to make the world of medicine a
balanced place—a win-win. This book proves that a doctor
can indeed have it all.”
—Pat Hiban New York Times bestselling author of 6 Steps to
7 Figures and Tribe of Millionaires, cofounder of GoBundance
“I have been fortunate to witness the incredible growth in
wisdom and life perspective Dr. Tran has developed while
dealing with his young son's surprise illness. I’ve seen him gain
a depth of understanding of what is important in life that few
of us reach. His ability to articulate this new mindset to help
others is more than impressive. I know I am a better person
because of the wisdom of Dr. Patrick Tran.”
—Darryl 
Putnam, 
speaker, 
writer, 
investor 
and
entrepreneur
“Dr. Patrick Tran has changed my life by teaching me medita‐
tion and mindset through his calming presence. He navigates
medicine effortlessly while being fully present for his son’s
journey surviving cancer. Despite overwhelming odds, he has
crushed it in business, completing over $20,000,000 in triple
net real estate transactions with me in less than 12 months,
which we plan to more than double every year. If you want
fulﬁllment in your life while having both time and ﬁnancial
freedom, Patrick can show you the way!”
—Matt Onofrio DNAP, CRNA, CEO Wild Moose
Ventures


===== PDF PAGE 4 ===== (images: 0: [])
“Dr. Tran is a kind-hearted, genuine soul who is on a mission
to improve the lives of physicians by teaching them the path to
ﬁnancial freedom through real estate investing. He is a truly
great person who brings together robust real estate experience
and solid values.”
—Elaine Stageberg MD, psychiatrist, founder of Black
Swan Investing and founder of Single Family Investing at
Scale
"Patrick Tran is an inspiration to be around. Both a constant
humble learner and incredibly insightful, he brings a depth of
knowledge that is rare in today’s quick sound bite era. His
action-oriented life is impressive and makes you want to be
around him. I recommend anyone given the chance to spend
time with Patrick in whatever capacity you can.”
—Jake Harris, bestselling author of Catching Knives: A Guide
to Investing in Distressed Commercial Real Estate, managing partner
at Harris Bay
"Dr. Patrick Tran lives the gratitude and positivity he teaches
and is wise beyond his years. His energy is desperately needed
to revive the devalued physician in our disrupted medical
profession."
—Brett Levine MD, head and neck surgeon and coauthor
of How to Join, Buy, or Merge a Physician’s Practice
“I have witnessed Patrick’s son’s cancer journey through his
writings. As a cancer survivor, I can relate to what he’s gone
through. He is evolving and growing in his deep wisdom
about life and I am thankful for every word he writes, as it
helps me to reﬂect more and surrender to what is in the
moment.”
—Nina Homnack, cofounder and SVP of SimulTrans


===== PDF PAGE 5 ===== (images: 0: [])
“Patrick Tran is a sincere and caring person who will be there
to listen to your needs.”
—Wilson Leung, founder of OWN Real Estate
"Patrick Tran has the knowledge and skills to help doctors
build their ﬁnancial freedom. It is much needed in the medical
industry today."
—Tim Rhode, founder of 1Life Fully Lived 501c3, author
of 1Life RoadMap Journal and Tribe of Millionaires
"Dr. Patrick Tran is insightful and wise beyond his years. He
has an uncanny ability to identify the source of burnout
amongst physicians and present a way out. His program of
action and the tools he uses to create fulﬁllment in the here
and now is cold water in a parched land. If you're stuck and
looking for more, act now! And go with Patrick! You'll be glad
you did."
—Dr. Joe Martin DNP, CRNA, president of Advanced
Anesthesia Inc. 
"Dr. Tran is an outstanding individual who cares deeply about
those around him. He strives to help others unlock their
potential through compassion, empathy and positivity and
empowers others to embrace a mindset revolving around
wholesome happiness. I highly recommend working with
him."
—Hersh Rai, Managing Partner, RaiVu Capital
"When I ﬁrst talked with Dr. Tran, I could immediately recog‐
nize his genuine compassion for others, drive to get things
done and extensive knowledge in real estate. His energy and
positive mindset is contagious. I look forward to continue
working with Dr. Tran and I recommend everyone ﬁnd an
excuse to get in touch with him."
—Nicholas Vu, managing partner of RaiVu Capital


===== PDF PAGE 6 ===== (images: 0: [])
“Happiness is an attitude, rather than a destination. In Burn-
In, Patrick Tran teaches us that, with the right attitude, we can
overcome obstacles and achieve greatness. This book can help
improve the lives of a generation of doctors, and that will
beneﬁt us all.”
—Tom Burns MD, orthopedic surgeon, principal and
cofounder of Presario Ventures and bestselling author of Why
Doctors Don’t Get Rich
"Dr. Patrick Tran is truly heart-centered in everything he does.
You can't help but feel that he is naturally ‘here’ permanently
—a true hallmark of anti-stress, anti-anxiety and anti-
burnout. He's been able to shift the direction of his life by
tapping into his inner abundance and patience and it clearly
shows in his book and interactions with others."
—Derek Clifford, author of Part-Time Real Estate Investing
for Full-Time Professionals: Upgrade Your Mindset, Portfolio and
Finances in Less Than a Year While Working
“Burnout is a signiﬁcant problem in medicine. Many feel it is
inevitable and even their fault, but Dr. Patrick Tran is a
thought leader and results leader who shows us a different
path. Dr. Tran's insights and actionable tools are life and
career changing! This book should be required reading for
medical students. I believe it could change the future of how
we practice medicine.”
—Jaime Hope MD, emergency room physician and best‐
selling author of Habit That!


===== PDF PAGE 7 ===== (images: 1: [11])


===== PDF PAGE 8 ===== (images: 0: [])
Copyright © 2021 Patrick Tran.
All rights reserved.
No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or by any electronic or
mechanical means, including information storage and retrieval systems, without
written permission from the author, except for the use of brief quotations in a
book review.
The views and opinions expressed in this book are those of the author only and
do not necessarily reﬂect the ofﬁcial policy or position of the author’s employers
or any other medical agency.
ISBN: 978-1-951407-93-3 (ebook)
ISBN: 978-1-951407-95-7 (paperback)
ISBN: 978-1-951407-96-4 (hardcover)


===== PDF PAGE 9 ===== (images: 0: [])
To physicians everywhere: recall that in the Hippocratic oath, one of the
ﬁrst lines is “Primum non nocere,” which means “First, do no harm.”
Remember this applies to you also! Take care of yourself ﬁrst so that you
can better serve others. On a plane, they tell you to put on your own oxygen
mask so you don’t pass out before you can help your child or the person
next to you. Don’t take the hypocritical oath, in which you disregard
yourself and burn out by giving all of your precious energy away.
Turn your attention inward so that you can lead a life of inﬁnite joy and
draw from a deep well of compassion to care for not only yourself but also
your family, your patients, the entire world and beyond.


===== PDF PAGE 10 ===== (images: 0: [])


===== PDF PAGE 11 ===== (images: 0: [])
Contents
Foreword
xiii
Introduction
xix
1. Who Am I, and How Did I Get Here?
1
2. Where Am I Going?
13
3. The Victim Mindset
23
4. Here and Now
36
5. Egos and Superpowers
47
6. Mindset Over Matter
61
7. The Meaning of Wealth
76
8. We’re All in This Together
98
9. Making Money Work for You
115
10. Playing to Win
126
11. The Work Continues
144
Afterword
153
Acknowledgments
165
About the Author
171


===== PDF PAGE 12 ===== (images: 0: [])


===== PDF PAGE 13 ===== (images: 0: [])
Foreword
During the 13 years I spent as a student after graduating from
high school—from medical school through residency and
fellowship—I learned nothing about money. The whole
medical training system encourages signiﬁcant memorization
of complex subjects like biochemistry, genetics and physiology.
But on the subject of how to make a life—a happy life—as a
working doctor, the instructions are scant if not entirely
absent.
There is a chasmic gap in ﬁnancial education and literacy
in medical training and beyond. In fact, money—for doctors,
nurses and other people who choose medical professions—can
be a taboo subject. You’re supposed to pursue a medical
career because it is a calling, a profession, a noble service.
Where does money ﬁt into this? Many of our fellow team‐
mates—doctors, dentists, CRNAs, nurses, pharmacists, dieti‐
tians, you-name-it therapists (physical, speech, occupational)—
still don’t know after decades into their careers. Which of your
professors or attending physicians ever discussed their net
worth or salary with you? How many of your peers talked
openly about student loan debt or about the parental or


===== PDF PAGE 14 ===== (images: 0: [])
xiv
Foreword
spousal support that allowed them to pursue opportunities
without considering the expense?
As a resident physician, you’re working 80-hour weeks and
being paid somewhere around $50,000 per year. You have no
sense of control. You’re scheduled for this 16-hour shift or that
overnight shift or 30-hour shift. They say jump and you’re
expected to ask, “How high?”
When you’re done with training, you’re a full-ﬂedged
attending physician and you get your ﬁrst job. Maybe you’re a
W2 employee. Your hours might not be as bad as they were in
residency: yes, you may be paid signiﬁcantly more, but you’re
not a stereotypical rich doctor, are you? After all the sacriﬁce
of your 20s and 30s spent in education, you come out on the
other side hundreds of thousands of dollars in debt.
As an attending, the stakes are a bit higher. It’s your
license, reputation and malpractice insurance on the line if
you make a mistake. In our litigious society, you may worry
that your patients will hit you with a frivolous (or not-so-friv‐
olous) lawsuit. Maybe you rub someone the wrong way, and
they write a nasty review about you on Yelp that causes new
appointments to drop off.
If you’re employed, you might be treated like a
commodity by the guys running the show. I am a board-certi‐
ﬁed dermatologist, and there are many conﬂicts in my ﬁeld.
Private equity (PE) groups have been rolling up dermatology
practices, buying them, making them more efﬁcient and
selling them at a proﬁt. This has been great for some older
dermatologists exiting their practices and capitalizing on their
years of service to their patients. There have also been very
public failures by PE groups such as U.S. Dermatology Part‐
ners defaulting on a $377 million dollar loan.
The PE groups aren’t going anywhere—they have been
and will always be a part of medicine now. Medicine is a
calling to you as a doctor, but it is a business at the end of the
day, and there are many ways to divide the pie. While health-


===== PDF PAGE 15 ===== (images: 0: [])
Foreword
xv
care costs have risen exponentially, the salaries of doctors have
not. The money’s not going to you, and at times, doctors are
unfairly scapegoated for their seemingly high salaries.
You spend all day caring for patients, trying to express
empathy, treating illness and helping others. But it may wear
on you. You may end the workday tired and exhausted, with
nothing left to give. What about when you get home? Now it’s
time to put on a show and be a great life partner, spouse and
active parent. Do you live in a nice home like doctors are
supposed to? Do you drive a nice car like doctors are supposed
to? Are you always trying to keep up with the Joneses?
And this, I should say, is often the best-case scenario. For
nurses, EMTs and other people who work closely with doctors
and in hospital and clinic settings, the same pressures often
apply even though salaries are lower.
This is where burnout comes from. It arises from a loss of
control over your life. The constant give, give, give to the
patients in your day job can drain even the most compas‐
sionate person. The grind of the non-productive administra‐
tive burden of clicking boxes to produce long, useless blocks of
text, smart phrases and “vital” information on electronic
medical records is soul-sucking. With the move away from
paper charts and a shift to mindless computer transcriptions
on electronic medical records (EMR), the signal gets lost in a
sea of noise. Tell me I’m wrong—that you’ve never read an
EMR note with copy-pasted material from the day before that
was never updated. One of the worst ones I’ve seen had the
physical exam part of the note stating “patient remains intu‐
bated and sedated” when in fact, the plan the day before had
been to extubate—and the patient was now awake, alert and
speaking!
Burnout is a feeling of not having enough money, time or
both to do what you love with those you love. It is the ques‐
tion, “What did I do all of this for?” These are giant, waving
red ﬂags in your life screaming, “Go back! This is not the


===== PDF PAGE 16 ===== (images: 0: [])
xvi
Foreword
way!” In the words of Gandalf, these feelings of burnout are a
magical staff crashing down, shouting, “You shall not pass!”
But there is a way to avoid burnout. I’ve been through the
same pains as you (and trust me, I know about pain). What
I’ve come to believe is that there is always a way back. A better
path leading to better health, better wealth, better quality time
and inﬁnite joy. My hope is that you walk it with me and never
feel that sense of hopelessness and victimhood again.
I wrote this book as a little treasure map for those seeking
a life of true happiness and liberation. I’ve brought you tools
that have helped me in my life so that you can apply them to
yours and hit your targets and key performance indicators
(KPIs) to become ﬁnancially independent faster than you
think—all while being joyful and grateful along the way.
This book will introduce you to useful tools that will help
you ﬁnd your way back to joy. You will consider what it means
to experience an elevated mindset to increase your produc‐
tivity in life, ﬁght procrastination and live at a higher
frequency of vibration, one where your heart and mind are
open and aligned with the ultimate version of yourself.
You will learn how to convert your day job or W2 income
into passive income so you don’t have to work that day job
unless you want to. You can carve out the life you desire from
the raw block of marble you’ve been given. If you’re just
starting out or just considering a career in medicine, I hope
you’ll ﬁnd advice in this book on what to do and what not to
do. If you’ve been working as a doctor or a nurse or any other
allied health professional for years, I hope you’ll ﬁnd empathy
for what you’ve gone through and support on how to envision
a brighter future.
I also want to spell out some commonsense things because
people can have unrealistic expectations in life, so let me be
totally upfront with you about what exactly you are holding in
your hands. This book is not a comprehensive autobiography
because I’m not Warren Buffett and I don’t want to bore you


===== PDF PAGE 17 ===== (images: 1: [22])
Foreword
xvii
with 960 pages. This is not a textbook on real estate, business,
stocks, bonds, ﬁxed income securities or cryptocurrency invest‐
ing. This is not a get-rich-quick scheme. I think of this book
more like an illustration of the Promised Land, but you are
the one who must journey through the desert. I’m not saying it
will take you 40 years though—I’d rather you take helicopter
ﬂying lessons and get there in a day! The book is only 163
pages—it’s not the entirety of the internet nor is it Google, so
don’t expect it to be. Just relax, enjoy and get whatever
nuggets you like—maybe re-read it if you missed something
the ﬁrst time.


===== PDF PAGE 18 ===== (images: 0: [])
xviii
Foreword
I’m also going to give you a TLDR for the book. For those of
you whose dopamine receptors cannot get their ﬁx fast
enough, here are three nuggets I’ll give you as an amuse-
bouche:
1. Keep a Beginner’s Mind
2. Be Kind
3. Think Critically for Yourself
If you want to ﬁnd out more about what these mean, I’ll
give you an afterword with ﬂeshed-out paragraphs when
you’re done with the book. Or just skip ahead—it’s your book
now. It’s a free country (if you’re reading this, for example, in
America). Write in it, read it, don’t read it, let it collect dust on
your shelf, burn it, whatever—I just hope that you enjoy it in
some form or fashion.
Finally, remember that this book is just the beginning.
Once you have peeked over the wall, you will want to live on
the other side. There is a tribe of like-minded individuals, a
community of doctors who live by these principles. You can
ﬁnd us at wealthbound.com. Here, these ideas will be iterated,
reﬁned and expanded as our network of high-level individuals
synergizes and organizes to form its own higher-level organ‐
ism. We are all jumping in the river of life in a big way, and
together we rise the tide and lift each other up. Come join us
and see how you can transform your life for the better.


===== PDF PAGE 19 ===== (images: 0: [])
Introduction
Fourteen centimeters.
In the grand scheme of things, it’s an incredibly small
measurement—the size of a pencil maybe, or the palm of
your hand.
But in the doctor’s ofﬁce, on images of the inside of my
son’s body? Fourteen centimeters felt like it might as well have
been a hundred miles. There on the glowing X-ray, pushing so
hard it was displacing his small organs, it was all I could see.
How did this happen? How did I end up here? My almost
two-year-old son Adrian was sick with an incredibly rare form
of cancer, and my wife and I were suddenly facing the
prospect of losing our precious boy before he even started
kindergarten. I’m a physician, but Adrian’s illness was way
outside my specialty, which put me in a difﬁcult position: I
knew enough to understand how serious the situation was, but
I didn’t know how to ﬁx it. A father’s (and doctor’s) worst
nightmare. I stayed up all night reading whatever I could ﬁnd,
hoping more knowledge might somehow make the situation
easier to digest.


===== PDF PAGE 20 ===== (images: 1: [26])
xx
Introduction
My wife was the ﬁrst person to see that something was
wrong. Adrian, she noticed, only seemed to be gaining weight
in one part of his abdomen. Still, while it seemed like he
might have been a little smaller than before, he was an other‐
wise healthy kid—no fevers, no pain, no indication that he was
anything other than a happily growing little boy.
But giving him a bath one night, the fact that one side of
his small stomach was bigger than the other was unmistakable
to her. The diagnosis wasn’t instant, but when it came, things
started moving at lightning speed. Within two weeks, he would
have surgery to remove the tumor, ofﬁcially called a clear cell
sarcoma of the kidney (CCSK). Immediately there was a
complication: something called an intussusception, which
required the surgeons to go back into his small belly and stop
his bowels from telescoping into each other. Once the surgical
part of the treatment was complete, we moved on to radiation
and over six months of chemotherapy—a process that would
be hard on the body of a healthy, full-grown adult, let alone a
boy still small enough to be carried in my arms.
It should go without saying that neither my wife nor I got
much sleep in the months after Adrian’s diagnosis. Our lives
were turned upside down with whole days and weeks
revolving around doctor’s appointments and making sure
Adrian was as safe as possible at home.
Whereas most kids his age delight in their newfound
mobility, crashing into walls and sliding down playground
equipment at the park, Adrian suddenly seemed so fragile—
the slightest accident could mean an internal bleed that would
seep into his belly, his joints, even his brain. A cold that would


===== PDF PAGE 21 ===== (images: 0: [])
Introduction
xxi
usually mean nothing more than a few snuggly days in front
of Cocomelon could mean rushing Adrian to the hospital where
he would need to have blood cultures taken, lab work drawn,
broad spectrum antibiotics infused through his central port
access, possibly multiple transfusions of blood or platelets and
a hospital admission that could last anywhere from two days to
two weeks.
And in the moments when Adrian was asleep, exhausted
from the seemingly endless treatments, we worried. Would he
make it to his next birthday? Would he go to school, make
friends, become a person with wants and needs and hopes and
dreams? Would we, his parents, be strong enough to see him
through this? And if the worst happened, and Adrian died
before we did—would we be strong enough to survive that?
Adrian’s cancer isn’t just rare—it’s incredibly rare. According to
Dr. Elizabeth Mullen, a pediatric hematologist/oncologist at
the Dana Farber Cancer Institute at Harvard:
I think it is important to understand that all pediatric cancer
is rare, and that CCSK is a very rare subtype of pediatric
kidney cancer. To give you some better understanding of
how often this type of cancer is seen, over the last 14 years,
the Children's Oncology Group (COG) has run a large
collaborative renal tumor biology and risk stratiﬁcation
study that opened in 2006 (COG Protocol AREN03B2).
There are 209 sites within the United States and
Canada that enroll patients in this study (that is the vast
majority of sites that treat children with cancer in those
locations) and the study has now enrolled over 6000
children with pediatric renal tumors. There are about 500
new renal tumors in children that occur each year. The vast
majority of the tumors seen are Wilms tumor.


===== PDF PAGE 22 ===== (images: 0: [])
xxii
Introduction
The total enrollment of children with Clear Cell
Sarcoma of the Kidney since 2006 is just under 200
children, about 14 children a year. This helps to explain
why it is necessary to study children with this disease in
large collaborative groups of institutions in order to
understand how to best treat this disease.
Fourteen children per year in all the United States and
Canada! Keep in mind that the population of children under
age ﬁve in both countries combined is about 24 million. The
chance of a child getting this cancer is less than one in a
million. And Adrian is one of them. It’s almost as rare as
winning the lottery, except this isn’t a lottery anyone would
want to win.
And yet.
Adrian’s diagnosis awakened something in me. I’ve spent my
whole life focused on becoming a doctor, on being a doctor
and on being a successful doctor. Within the span of a few short
years, my whole life changed. I had a wife and a family who
loved me and needed me. I had a son whose future was, in so
many ways, painfully uncertain. It wasn’t something I recog‐
nized instantly, but over time, I came to see that while I was on
this journey with my son and my wife, I was also on another
journey that would push me to reconsider so much of what I
believed about life and so much about what was out there
for me.
Last year, I thought that science, Western medicine and
biology were all there was. I was a very logical guy, and I
wouldn't believe anything until I saw it with my own two eyes
or there was a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-
blinded study to prove it. Meditation? Prayer? Law of attrac‐
tion? Despite growing up in Northern California, which is
often thought of as ground zero for everything that falls under


===== PDF PAGE 23 ===== (images: 0: [])
Introduction
xxiii
the “woo-woo” umbrella, I’d never had much interest in
anything that couldn’t be proven as factually, scientiﬁcally,
unequivocally correct.
But little by little (and then all at once), my mind started to
open to other possibilities. To the possibility that my son’s
illness wasn’t just a curse but also a gift, one that would allow
me to practice and choose radical acceptance, radical love and
radical happiness for myself, even on the worst days—espe‐
cially on the worst days. What if I allowed life to unfold as it
was meant to, with me as a humble recipient of everything the
world had to offer? What if I learned to turn the love I felt for
my son inward, to give love to myself, and then turned it
outward again, extending it to other people, too?
I also started to think about how changing my mindset
would change my work life. So much of becoming a doctor is
about delayed gratiﬁcation: skipping parties to study in
college, forgoing relationships to focus on medical school,
dealing with overwork and underpayment in residency, all in
the hopes of someday pulling down the high salaries and
social prestige that draw so many people to the profession in
the ﬁrst place.
So, what actually happens when you make it (or if you
make it)? Are doctors happy? Evidence would suggest we’re
not: over the last year and a half, the news is ﬁlled with stories
about doctors who overworked themselves during the
pandemic, in some cases to the point of severe depression and
even suicide. And how many doctors—supposedly one of the
most stable and secure professions in the country—lost their
jobs?
Even in normal times, burnout is a fact of life for many in
the medical ﬁeld: Medscape’s 2017 Lifestyle survey reported
that 51 percent of surveyed doctors described themselves as
burned out. And it’s funny: for every patient who reports
feeling dissatisﬁed (or worse) with the medical system in the
United States, there’s a doctor who feels the same way, largely


===== PDF PAGE 24 ===== (images: 0: [])
xxiv
Introduction
for the same reasons. That same 2017 study counted “too
much time spent performing bureaucratic tasks,” “spending
too many hours at work” and “feeling like a cog in a wheel” as
reasons cited by doctors for their unhappiness.
What I want to do is offer a solution to burnout. I want to
teach my fellow doctors to burn-in.
I want you to consider: even the word burnout has the word
out in it! It puts the blame on the outside when truly, the onus is
on you to create joy and cultivate peace, calm and love inside.
It's as if in burnout there are all these external factors that
both create and solve your problems: a hospital or medical
school will get you a free yoga class or buy you lunch.
But the work I’ve done, and the work I want to help you
do, is actually on the inside, which is why you burn-in—you
work on your sense of self and let go of your ego, false sense
of control, fear, anger and resentments. You surrender your
ideas about how things should be and go beyond the expecta‐
tions of society, the systems, the way things “ought” to be and
you just…be. Be a human being. Every time you experience a
negative thought or emotion or get triggered, I encourage you
to let go of it, opening more space for you to ignite the ﬁres
that will warm and brighten your life from the inside out.
I want to show you that you can be happy right now.
There is a piece of this that is ﬁnancial, and we’re going to
talk about it. I’ve long been interested in concepts like FIRE,
which stands for Financial Independence, Retire Early. As
doctors (and nurses and other people working in the medical
ﬁeld), many of us are making the kind of salaries that make
investing smart an option, and that’s something I’ve taken seri‐
ously, amassing a 22-million-dollar real estate portfolio in the
span of just a few years. I’d be lying if I said money wasn’t, in
some ways, an antidote to burnout. How many of us work the
long hours and shoulder the burdens of running a practice to
make money to pay for houses, vacations and the hundreds of


===== PDF PAGE 25 ===== (images: 0: [])
Introduction
xxv
thousands of dollars in loans it’s easy to amass in medical
school?
Maybe that’s why you picked up this book in the ﬁrst place
—because you want to learn how to leverage your salary into
an even bigger number, one that will let you work less and call
the shots more in your day-to-day life. And if that’s the case,
it’s okay. I don’t blame you for hoping that changing your
ﬁnancial situation will change the rest of your life because in
many ways, it will.
But money is just a part of my life, and it’s just a part of
yours. I want to help you make more money, but more than
that, I want to share with you the tools for changing your
mindset, for helping you come to a place of peace, joy and
contentment. These are tools for developing the kind of inner
life that can’t be pummeled by what’s going on outside.
Because I really, truly believe anyone can do it—and I believe
that you don’t need to experience having a child with cancer, a
health scare of your own or anxiety about a global pandemic
to get there. All you need is an open mind.
So, do I have permission to take you on this ride? Are you
ready to experience the freedom of burn-in?
Let’s go!


===== PDF PAGE 26 ===== (images: 0: [])


===== PDF PAGE 27 ===== (images: 0: [])
ONE
Who Am I, and How Did I Get Here?
I sometimes wonder if the universe intended for me to
become a doctor—if that was somehow the plan all along.
It certainly seems that way, especially when you look at my
family tree. My mother came to the United States from
Vietnam during the war. She was only 17 and probably a lot
more focused on her goals than the average 17-year-old.
While attending college in Long Beach, she had two tasks: one
was learning the science she’d need to know to get into
medical school, and the other was learning English. By the
end of her time as an undergraduate, she was ﬂuent in both
biology and the language of her new country, and she moved
to the Bay Area to start medical school at the University of
California at San Francisco (UCSF). That’s also where I come
into the story because it’s where she met my father.
They had some big things in common. Like my mother,
my father was a Vietnamese immigrant—and also like her, he
was building a career in health care, training at UCSF as a
resident prosthodontist. Medicine was in his blood; his father
(my grandfather) was an obstetrician/gynecologist who
trained at Johns Hopkins University. Initially, my grandfather’s


===== PDF PAGE 28 ===== (images: 0: [])
2
BURN-IN
plan was to study in America and then live and work in Viet‐
nam. For a time, that’s what he did. Working for the Southern
Vietnamese government, he was the minister of health (think
surgeon general), helping to establish hospitals and clinics and
bringing some of what he’d learned in the United States back
home.
Eventually, my grandfather found himself working with
the World Health Organization, and as part of what must
have seemed like a grand adventure to my father and his
siblings, the entire family packed up once more and moved to
Cameroon. The ﬂedgling African nation was at that time
experiencing what’s known as a “brain drain”: their best and
brightest students were traveling to Europe and the United
States for higher education. But instead of returning home
with their newfound knowledge, they were choosing to live
and work abroad. My grandfather’s task was to use what he’d
learned developing medical infrastructure in Vietnam to help
build a medical school that would train Cameroon’s future
doctors, which would, in turn, encourage them to stay and
practice there.
By the time my parents had me, sandwiched between an
older sister and a younger brother, they’d settled in Piedmont,
a suburb in the East Bay near the city of Oakland and the
University of California, Berkeley (Cal). From an early age, I
was drawn to science and did especially well in biology. It felt
like I was on a straight-shot path to having a “Dr.” in front of
my name.
After high school, where I continued to do well in science
classes, I stayed close to home for college, choosing to study at
Cal. But while I was a great student, I also had a huge ego, as
evidenced by my high school yearbook. Remember the
concept of the senior quote? At the beginning of the year,
after taking portraits that would eventually decorate the walls
of their parents’ homes, high school seniors submit a quote to


===== PDF PAGE 29 ===== (images: 0: [])
Who Am I, and How Did I Get Here?
3
be printed under their name and photo in the yearbook. It’s a
short series of words to, in some way, sum up who they were
and what they wanted people to think about them. Even
though this is usually done in the fall (and college admissions
letters don’t start appearing in mailboxes until the spring), I
had “Berkeley, Class of 2010” printed under my smiling face.
I thought that I was going to go to Berkeley. I knew I was
going to go to Berkeley. Can you imagine how embarrassed I’d
have been if I hadn’t gotten in? But the idea that I wouldn’t
wasn’t scary or nerve-racking—it simply wasn’t even some‐
thing I’d considered as a cocky 17-year-old.
Attend Berkeley I did, and from there, I thought the world
was my oyster—an opinion reinforced by the fact that I was
awarded a merit scholarship to medical school at the Univer‐
sity of Michigan in Ann Arbor, a top-10 school I was proud to
attend.
I won’t say that the world wasn’t my oyster, but I also won’t
deny that my system was a bit shocked upon my arrival in
Michigan. In high school, I’d been at the top of my class, and
though Berkeley is a challenging school, I did well enough
there to be ranked at the top of my class, too—I was, if I may
put it a little bluntly, hot shit.
But at Michigan, everyone seemed like hot shit, which in
retrospect makes sense—many of my classmates had been at
the top of their classes, too, and I think a lot of us were prob‐
ably used to being the smartest person in any given room.
Once classes got underway, I settled in and buckled down.
While I had some exposure to life as a doctor via my parents, I
wasn’t sure which ﬁeld I wanted to go into, so I kept my eyes
open, waiting for the right specialty to reveal itself to me.
During a plastic surgery rotation, I learned about burn
reconstruction. Something about it instantly resonated with
me. I saw one case where the patient had been burned in a
kerosene ﬁre. He had these disﬁguring and uncomfortable


===== PDF PAGE 30 ===== (images: 0: [])
4
BURN-IN
scars on his hand that prevented him from fully closing it,
which made doing any number of daily tasks difﬁcult or
impossible.
After an hour in the operating room, through manipu‐
lating the scar tissue and rearranging it, we released the adhe‐
sions and gave him back his dexterity. I remember my mentor,
Paul Cederna, performing multiple Z-plasties, surgeries to
open up the contracted scars. With the completion of each
one, he would breathe out a sigh, as if feeling relief from the
scar’s tension himself: “Ahhhhh.” It was a beautiful experience
to witness. The patient went to sleep unable to use his hand,
and when he woke up, it was functional.
I’m going to spoil the next chapter of this book and tell
you that today, I don’t practice burn reconstruction—in fact, I
didn’t even stick with plastic surgery. But looking back, I see
that from an early age I was drawn to medicine not just
because I was good at it but because I saw something powerful
in being able to give people the precious tools they need to live
their best lives.
I come from a big family. I have, as I mentioned, two siblings,
and my parents each have their own brothers and sisters.
Among my aunts and uncles, there are enough medical profes‐
sionals to staff a small hospital: a radiologist, a family medi‐
cine doctor, two orthopedic surgeons, an otorhinolaryngologist
(ENT), a urologist, an ophthalmologist, an internal medicine
doctor, an obstetrician/gynecologist, a nuclear medicine
doctor, a cardiologist, a radiation-oncologist, an oromaxillofa‐
cial surgeon and myself, a dermatologist (plus my own parents
—my mother the allergist/immunologist and my father the
prosthodontist). Between the 21 cousins on my mom’s side of
the family and the 15 on my father’s, guess how many of us


===== PDF PAGE 31 ===== (images: 0: [])
Who Am I, and How Did I Get Here?
5
followed in the footsteps of previous generations and went into
medicine?
If you guessed more than three, you’d be wrong. Just one
cousin on my mother’s side is a doctor, with another who
recently got into medical school. I’m the only member of my
father’s extended family that went into what, until our genera‐
tion, was the family business. My sister is a kindergarten
teacher, and my brother has a DMA (Doctor of Musical Arts)
—he became another Dr. Tran, just not the kind my mother
had hoped for.
How come I’m the only one that got the memo? The
question might be better framed as “How come I’m the only
one that didn’t get the memo?” While it’s natural for kids to be
interested in what their parents do, my siblings, cousins and I
all got an up-close look at the lives of doctors and saw things
we didn’t want for our own adult lives. We saw the stress and
the turmoil. We also saw that while in some cases our older
relatives might have seemed like they were in positions of
power, they were often at the mercy of forces way beyond
their control: schedules, administrators, insurance companies,
and more—oh, my!
I inherited the “doctor gene” from my parents, but I learned
recently that it might not be the only thing that was handed
down to me.
During my son’s battle with cancer, my father had a
syncopal episode (he passed out, for any non-doctors reading
this) and was rushed to the emergency room. Because they
were worried that he might have had a heart attack, they
performed an EKG, which showed concerning signs. Luckily,
the cardiac catheterization didn’t reveal signiﬁcant blockage,
meaning he didn’t have a heart attack. However, during an


===== PDF PAGE 32 ===== (images: 0: [])
6
BURN-IN
echocardiogram, we learned that he has something called
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, which for him means that one
of the walls of his heart is 2.5x thicker than it should be. This
occurred not from a poor diet or excessive stress but because
of genetics. And if it turns out he does have the speciﬁc
genetic mutation that causes his heart wall to be an inch thick
when it should be ten millimeters, there’s a 50 percent chance
that I have it, too.
In my father’s case, dehydration from a stomach bug put
him into a state where his heart didn't have enough blood
going into it. When the left ventricle squeezed and tried to
push blood out to the body, he had decreased blood ﬂow to
the brain because of the thickened wall. That’s what made
him pass out.
He was lucky: not knowing you have this condition means,
for many people, a sudden death. I remember learning about
it in medical school. We called it HOCM, or hypertrophic
obstructive cardiomyopathy. The classic scenario is there's a
seemingly healthy 20-year-old kid playing basketball with his
friends. Suddenly and without warning, he collapses and dies.
That could have easily been my father. And if I have the
mutation, it could have been me.
When I told some friends about my dad, they were all very
sympathetic. “What a year this has been for you and your
family,” a few of them said. “We’re so sorry you’re dealing
with this.”
Here’s my response to that:
How lucky am I?
• 
• 
•


===== PDF PAGE 33 ===== (images: 0: [])
Who Am I, and How Did I Get Here?
7
Seriously! My father is alive. He passed out, went to the
hospital and was diagnosed in a matter of days. I have so
many doctor friends who made themselves instantly available
to answer questions and make referrals.
While this condition can be deadly, it’s also manageable:
many people do well with just a pill, a beta blocker, and there
are surgeries to resect the thickened heart muscle wall and
correct the mechanical problem.There's also a newer tech‐
nique called alcohol septal ablation, where they insert a
catheter into the left ventricle and create a controlled heart
attack to thin the wall. They can also implant a device that
will shock your heart if you go into a weird rhythm (one of the
main causes of death in HOCM), the same way a doctor
would use paddles. With the right treatment and some luck,
my father may live decades longer.
And what about me? How many times in my life have I
been out of breath, overheated from intense exercise or wired
from partying like there’s no tomorrow? I know now that I’ll
need to get tested and get my son tested so if either one of us
carries the mutation, we can keep it under control.
How could I not feel lucky? How could I not marvel at
what a miracle it is that I’m still alive and kicking?
If I had been dealing with a sick son and a sick father ﬁve
years ago, I doubt if I could have tapped into the kind of posi‐
tive mindset that allows me to think about how lucky I am
every day and how grateful I am to be who I am, where I am,
right now.
I’ve done a lot of reading, worked with coaches and really
pushed myself beyond the limits of my comfort zone to get to
this space, which is part of why I’m writing this book. I don’t
think anyone is born knowing how to navigate the world with


===== PDF PAGE 34 ===== (images: 0: [])
8
BURN-IN
hope and gratitude in the face of hardship, and I also don’t
think it’s something you need to make into your whole profes‐
sion and reason for being.
You might think to reach enlightenment, you must sit
under a banyan tree for 49 days or meditate in a cave for 49
years. But don't you have a life to live? The real challenge is
ﬁnding the grace in your everyday practice. Once you start to
consider the possibility that owning your mindset is the most
powerful part of being alive, you’ll notice examples of it
happening all around you.
When I was in high school, pop culture was obsessed with
The Secret. It was a book and then a movie, and if you’re older
than 30, I guarantee you’ve encountered one or the other at
some point during your life. I never read the book and only
recently saw the movie on Netﬂix, but I picked up the general
idea, which comes from the concept of the law of attraction.
If you want something, you must envision it—that’s it. The
envisioning turns into manifesting, and then you’re a movie
star or the president or you’ve won a Nobel Prize or married
the girl of your dreams.
I obviously thought that this was utter nonsense. I wasn’t
at the top of my class because I envisioned being at the top of
my class; I was there because I’d worked for it.
But manifestation—true manifestation—is not about skip‐
ping the hard work portion of life. As I’m constantly learning,
it’s about approaching the world with an open mind and an
open heart and believing that when you really need some‐
thing, when you’re really meant to have something, it will ﬁnd
you. That by envisioning what you really want, you will prime
your reticular activating system in your brainstem to ﬁlter your
experiences in the world to convert your subconscious desires
into a conscious reality. As Tony Robbins says, "Where focus
goes, energy ﬂows."
My wife and I recently decided to look for a new house. I


===== PDF PAGE 35 ===== (images: 0: [])
Who Am I, and How Did I Get Here?
9
invest heavily in real estate, but I don’t invest in single-family
homes because you often ﬁnd yourself competing with
emotional buyers who get stuck on “the dream home” and are
willing to pay whatever it takes to win the inevitable bidding
war.
From a ﬁnancial standpoint, it doesn't make a ton of sense
if you’re looking to buy solely as an investment. But suddenly,
my wife and I were those dream home buyers. We were
outgrowing our house, and its placement in a busy neighbor‐
hood meant cars were constantly peeling around corners, with
screeching tires rattling us at all hours of the day and night.
Adrian is a little boy ﬁghting for his life—he needs peace,
quiet and space to play. We dreamed about a backyard or
maybe even a spa where my wife and I could soak in precious
moments of relaxation at the end of a long day.
Deciding to move is one thing, but doing it is quite
another. The real estate market is on ﬁre in many parts of the
country, and it’s deﬁnitely on ﬁre where I live in Modesto. I
can’t tell you how many houses we looked at, hoping each
time that we’d found The One. And when we thought we’d
found it, we worried about being chosen. It’s not unheard of
for houses in our area to ﬁeld offers from a dozen buyers
within a week of hitting the market.
When we found the place that felt like the home we were
meant to live in as a family, we wrote a letter to the sellers. We
talked about Adrian and what he’d been going through and
about how his illness had brought us closer as a family—how
it made us understand the beauty and the magic of life.
We explained that their home was one we could see
ourselves thriving in, living, working and playing as a happy,
loving family. We shared our dream that this home would be
the place where our son would feel comfort, joy and healing
during this challenging time. We attached a few pictures so
they could put faces to the voices in our letter.


===== PDF PAGE 36 ===== (images: 0: [])
10
BURN-IN
Then, we waited. Was I nervous? Of course! There are no
guarantees in real estate, and as an investor, I’ve learned how
to emotionally detach from properties and transactions. At the
same time, I felt a sense of calm wash over me when I thought
about this house. I felt in my bones that this was going to be
our home. That it was our home.
We moved in recently, and in chatting with the seller
Randi, I learned about an incredible moment of serendipity.
“When we purchased the home, we did the same thing!”
She told me. “We added a picture of our family and we wrote
a letter. Your offer was the only one that came in with a letter
and a picture.”
As I was feeling my connection to the house strengthen,
Randi was experiencing something similar. “When my
husband and I ﬁrst bought the house,” she said, “we were kind
of newly starting our family together. And we wanted to ﬁnd a
home that had space to grow. And we got a lot out of that
house as a home, not just a house. When we got your offer and
it had this picture of your family and this story about what
your family was experiencing and what you were looking for
in a home and how you connected with our home, we felt like
we were passing the home onto the next family who could
grow and connect to it the same way we did, because it was
more than just a house for us.”
We’ve only been moved in a short time—at the time of
this writing, we’re not even fully unpacked yet! There are still
boxes on the ﬂoor in the kitchen, but the house has already
become a home for my family, too.
It wasn’t the ﬁrst house we put in a bid on. Earlier in the
process, we’d made an offer on a house that looked remark‐
ably like the one in which we now live, with one key differ‐
ence: it had hard, cold marble ﬂoors. This was an aesthetically
popular choice, sure, but recall that we have a fragile young
son who also happens to be in the crash-into-everything stage


===== PDF PAGE 37 ===== (images: 0: [])
Who Am I, and How Did I Get Here?
11
of toddlerhood. The home we live in now has carpeted ﬂoors
—a soft place to land for the littlest member of our family.
The house we live in also has another one of our wish-list
items: a backyard spa. As busy and as hectic as life is, we’ve
still found time to use it, getting so much joy from being able
to soak away a hard day, ﬂoating in the water as the sun sets.
Now, do I think the universe is handing out backyard spas
to anyone who wants one? Maybe not. But I do think—I know
—that there’s real power in choosing to see yourself as the
creator of your own life. In actively working to shape your
own destiny and seeing your hard work not as mere work but
as part of a life that looks the way you want it to. The way you
believe it can look. That what you want and what you get are
reﬂections of who you are and how you move through the
world. In building, one positive thought at a time, your very
own dream house.
Not a lot of people know that the sculptor Michelangelo didn’t create the
statue of David—one of his most famous works—from a raw block of
marble. Decades before he was even born, a group of wealthy Italian
patrons commissioned another artist to render the biblical ﬁgure in marble.
He gave up halfway through the carving process, and over the years a
number of other artists attempted to ﬁnish what had been started.
Only Michelangelo, when he took over the project in 1521, had the
vision to complete the story. Where other people saw a block of raw
marble or a half-ﬁnished statue that wasn’t that great to begin with, he
saw his destiny waiting to be brought to life. He saw his future and he
saw himself carving it, sure in the knowledge that the result would be a
masterpiece.


===== PDF PAGE 38 ===== (images: 1: [45])
12
BURN-IN
Be the creator of your own life. Chisel it out of marble and treat it
like the precious work of art that it is.


===== PDF PAGE 39 ===== (images: 0: [])
TWO
Where Am I Going?
Becoming a doctor isn’t for the faint of heart.
Let’s say you make it to medical school. You’ll be doing
work that is equivalent in difﬁculty to upper-level college
biology courses, things like biochemistry and genetics. But
instead of learning the material in a semester, you’ll be
expected to master it in a week.
Then, you’ll have to do it again the next week and the
week after that. It is a volume overload of information. In
many instances, you’ll be pitted against your classmates. You’ll
spend all your time with the same group of people—in no
small part because there’s not really time to develop a social
life outside of school—but the relationships won’t always be
congenial. Usually, the ﬁrst two years of school aren't as
competitive in pass/no pass programs, but if you're awarded
honors or high pass for greater levels of achievement after
that, then I wish you luck. Once you move into clinical rota‐
tions, the pressure to outshine fellow students intensiﬁes.
It’s still a tight-knit group—you’ll have study groups, and
people will want to help each other. But you’ll also be aware
that some of the people in your cohort are not, as they say on


===== PDF PAGE 40 ===== (images: 0: [])
14
BURN-IN
reality television, there to make friends. There are stories of
“gunners,” slang for the med students trying to beat everyone
on the curve, ripping out pages from library textbooks to sabo‐
tage fellow students. I didn't experience that directly, but I’ve
seen enough to know that it’s a very real phenomenon.
I was that guy once, even though it was totally uninten‐
tional! I was reading a lot in my pediatrics rotation, and I
pissed off my friend, another medical student, because I spoke
up during his patient presentation. I made the residents feel
bad about themselves because I was insecure and trying to
demonstrate my knowledge; suddenly I was the bad guy, even
though it was not my intention to hurt people’s feelings.
Which brings me to another thing I had to learn—some‐
times the hard way—in medical school. For so long, my life
had been about tests, grades and projects. Absorbing huge
quantities of material and then showing my professors and
myself that I knew it better than anyone else. I won’t say it
wasn’t incredibly important work, or that knowledge isn’t a
huge part of being successful in college and in medical school.
But training as a doctor in a clinical setting is a different
world with different rules. Now, you're not just focused on
being the smartest person in the room or just studying and
taking exams. You’re working with your team instead of
against your classmates. You need communication skills, a
bedside manner and other soft skills that maybe you didn't
hone while studying 14 hours a day. It’s not enough to just be
the smartest guy. You have to be the nicest guy. The most
helpful guy. Now you have to do all the scut work for residents
so they’ll like you and want to help you advance.
And I didn't get it. Science always came naturally to me,
but for this part of being a doctor, I didn't understand the
game. Because it truly is a game that you play when you're
rotating. In a hospital, a medical student is not especially
useful to anyone around them. What you have to do, if you


===== PDF PAGE 41 ===== (images: 0: [])
Where Am I Going?
15
want to excel in your clinical rotations, is make the resident's
life easier.
Because you are limited in your scope of knowledge and
practice as a trainee, it is challenging to directly help a patient.
Your job, then, becomes to help the team. While you can
advocate for your patients, you can also relieve the work load
for the resident physician. Then, your resident will pass on a
good word on to the attending, and you’ll get a good
evaluation.
In a lot of ways, it’s about surrender. About giving up
control. My ﬁrst few years of medical school, our lectures
were recorded, so I didn’t attend them live. I’d watch it on
double speed at home whenever I felt like it. I would eat what
I wanted, when I wanted, and I’d go to martial arts or the
gym twice a day. But then, when it came time to do hospital
rotations, I had to be there at 4 am on the dot to pre-round for
surgery before the sun was up. And it just sucks. You don't
have control of your own time, your own space.
You’re being, in a sense, broken down so that you can be
built back up as a doctor. The ﬁrst job for most medical
students doing surgery rotations is to cut a suture with scissors.
They hand you scissors, and your hands are shaking because
you're nervous, and the surgeon is a tough guy ready to come
down on you if you make one wrong move. You’re on edge,
palms sweating, thinking: Am I going to do this right? Am I going to
get yelled at? Is this cut going to impact the trajectory of my career for the
rest of my life?
Over a cut. And not even a cut of an actual patient’s skin
or muscle—a suture! Cutting is something I’ve known how to
do most of my life. It’s a skill they teach in kindergarten. And
here I was, in the equivalent of the 20th grade, afraid that a
skill I mastered a good 20 years ago might suddenly fail me
and derail all the work I’d done up to that point.
Now I wonder: why does it have to be like that? Why do


===== PDF PAGE 42 ===== (images: 0: [])
16
BURN-IN
some doctors have to be jerks? Is it just in a surgeon’s nature?
Is it because they were trained in this way, and therefore now
you must train in the same way and suffer the same torture?
Why do they have to make you so nervous? What’s the root of
this culture of embarrassment? Because it’s very real. Quizzes
and exams aren’t just graded individually, privately. You're
roasted in front of your class! Let’s say there’s four of you
rotating on surgery and the attending takes you all aside and
asks, “Okay, what exits the inferior vena cava at this point?
Which side of the aorta comes off ﬁrst to the kidney, the left
or the right renal artery?”
Or “What are the common causes of pancreatitis? Oh,
great job, you said scorpion sting? Which species of scorpi‐
on?” And there’s a race to answer, to make sure the attending
knows that out of the four students, you’re the one who deserves
to be there. They have a not-so-pleasant term for this line of
questioning, one that also reﬂects some of the macho energy
(regardless of gender) ﬂoating around these spaces: they call it
“pimping.” The surgeon demands answers to clinically rele‐
vant anatomy or etiology questions or sometimes just quizzes
you on random factoids like “Why are ﬂamingos pink?” or
“Which ‘80s musician is responsible for this terrible song I
insist on playing in the operating room whenever I’m
performing a major surgery?”
It’s impressive for medical students to be able to answer
the surgeon's question, and there were plenty of instances in
which I had the right answer. But for me, medical school was
also an exercise in learning to understand—and overcome—
cultural differences between me and many of the people I was
working with and learning from.
I come from an Asian family, and in Asian culture, chil‐
dren are seen and not heard. It’s considered respectful if
you're quiet and reserved and don’t make too much of a
scene. What's valued in Western medicine, or in medicine in


===== PDF PAGE 43 ===== (images: 0: [])
Where Am I Going?
17
general, is somebody who will speak up and who is conﬁdent.
If you're quiet, some people might think that you aren't
knowledgeable, that you aren't paying attention, or that you're
not a team player. If you're not culturally trained to shout out
the answer because you were raised to think shouting out answers is
rude, then you will never seem smart, even though you do
know the answer.
I struggled with this a lot. I was a product of my upbring‐
ing, which meant I was quiet. I was shy, and it took me a long
time to ﬁnd my voice and my conﬁdence. I had to learn to
speak up when I knew the answer and when I saw something
that wasn’t right. I had been taught for so long not to rock the
boat or step on anyone’s toes, but that wasn’t serving me as a
medical student or as a person the more I engaged with the
world outside of school.
I matched at Indiana University in a great (and extremely
competitive) program of integrated plastic and reconstructive
surgery. For six years, it would be where I’d hone my skills,
learn everything I needed to know about plastic surgery and
become a master of reconstructive burn surgery.
A lot of burn surgery is acute care. If somebody gets
burned in a ﬁre, the work surgeons do literally keeps them
alive. It's skin grafting, critical care, ﬂuid management. The
operations are not pretty little ﬂaps—they are massive skin
grafts in a hot operating room. You’re surrounded by people:
the anesthesiologist, the residents, the scrub techs, the periop‐
erative nurses, the care team after in the ICU.
I could see that while I might eventually be captain of the
ship, I wouldn’t necessarily have total control over my work. I
would, however, bear tremendous responsibility: imagine a 20-
year-old kid burned in a ﬁery car crash and me talking to his


===== PDF PAGE 44 ===== (images: 0: [])
18
BURN-IN
family about pulling the plug because even if he were to
survive, it would be a miserable existence where he would be
in constant pain, unable to walk, eat, move or breathe on
his own.
For so long, working as a burn surgeon had been central to
my conception of who I was, what I was meant to be doing
and where my life was going.
And I was miserable.
I remember thinking: is this what I signed up for?
I just wanted to escape. It was so bad that I remember, at
one point, thinking, I should just jump off the top ﬂoor of this parking
garage and be out of it. That was a dark moment. I've never had
major depressive disorder. As a physician, I know all the diag‐
nostic criteria for clinical depression.
Looking back, I can say that it probably wasn’t a true
moment of suicidal ideation—I don’t think I would have actu‐
ally done it. But just because I wasn’t in the kind of crisis that
might have required admission to a psych ward doesn’t mean
it’s something I can brush off when I think about that time in
my life. It wasn’t right. It's not a healthy thought to want to
end your life by jumping off a parking garage, but it’s one that
doctors, dentists and other health-care professionals are all too
familiar with.
In 2018, the American Psychiatry Association released a
decade-long study that discovered between 300 and 400
doctors die by suicide every year—a number that, per 100,000
people, is double that of the non-medical population. While
I’m grateful that my own mental health struggles weren’t as
severe as what some of our colleagues experience, part of my
mission now is confronting doctor burnout head-on in the
hopes that we as a community can push back against the
suffering that goes hand in hand with the job for so many
of us.
What I was searching for during that time was escape. I


===== PDF PAGE 45 ===== (images: 0: [])
Where Am I Going?
19
even emailed an old pathology professor from medical school,
thinking that maybe a specialty where I didn’t interact with
patients at all would be less taxing mentally and emotionally.
It’s no less challenging a specialty, but I did hear from the
people I talked with that their pathology department regularly
ﬁelded inquiries from burned-out residents looking to escape
clinical medicine.
I didn’t actually want to be a pathologist, but I had
another idea.
Before matching into plastic surgery, I had considered
going into dermatology. The hours are good, the pay is good
and you’re less likely to encounter the kinds of emergencies I
was dealing with as a burn surgeon. What held me back,
though, was what I thought plastic surgery offered: the oppor‐
tunity to change someone’s life in the operating room. That’s
what I wanted to do.
I loved the geometry of the work: designing a perfect ﬂap,
performing a seamless reconstruction. In my plastic surgery
training, I was being taught to do a wide variety of procedures
—everything from ﬁxing a cleft lip to hand and breast recon‐
structive surgery. As an intern, I had the rare privilege of
touching and protecting a two-year-old’s brain during a joint
case with neurosurgery to reshape a prematurely fused skull
known as craniosynostosis. But I was realizing, the more I
thought about it, that I didn’t want to do every type of
surgery. What I wanted was to master a few operations—and
to do them very often and very well.
Plastics and dermatology often overlap, so it wasn’t difﬁ‐
cult for me to become acquainted with the chair of the
dermatology department, Steve Wolverton, whose name
carries some clout as he authored a well-known pharmacology
textbook. One day, I told him, “I don't think that I'm happy in
plastic surgery. I think I'm supposed to be a dermatologist.”
He took me under his wing, which ultimately led me to a


===== PDF PAGE 46 ===== (images: 0: [])
20
BURN-IN
dermatology residency in Washington, DC, where I picked up
a newly opened spot at Howard University Hospital that was
generously funded by the Veterans Affairs Medical Center.
From there, I returned to my home state of California,
completing a fellowship in what I currently specialize in: Mohs
micrographic surgery.
It’s a procedure in which I cut somebody's skin cancer off
their nose or ear, on their face or another high-risk area, and
then I check the margins myself under the microscope and see
if I got all the cancer or not. Then, once I’ve removed the
cancer, I do the reconstruction. It’s the perfect hybrid of
dermatology and what I initially loved about plastic surgery. I
do all the same reconstructive operations with beautiful ﬂaps
to restore somebody's nose, their contour and its breathing
functions after a big cancer is removed. It was really what
excited me in plastic surgery to begin with. It wasn’t all the
bigger surgeries but the local ﬂaps and procedures that were
faster paced. You can do a DIEP microsurgery for bilateral
breast reconstruction, and it can take 20 hours.
The reconstructive surgeries I do after skin cancer take
maybe 10 or 20 minutes. It was a better match for my person‐
ality. I was still doing important, life-changing work, but it was
the kind of work I could ﬁnish in a morning or an afternoon.
When a patient comes to see me, they leave the same day,
transformed in a powerful way.
Leaving plastic surgery wasn’t something I took lightly.
Once the idea took shape, I talked to people who had been
where I was, asking plastic surgeons further along in their
careers if they were happy and if, given the chance to do it all
over, they’d make the same choices. A lot of them were candid
with me and said, “Probably not.”
One doctor, Adam, said to me, “I'm 55 years old, and I
don't have a family. I don't have a wife. I don't have kids.
Going back, did I make the right decisions? I don't know.”


===== PDF PAGE 47 ===== (images: 0: [])
Where Am I Going?
21
I talked to another plastic surgeon, Bill, the father of one
of the residents I rotated with in medical school back in
Michigan, and he told me a similar story. He had a wife and
kids, and his son was a plastic surgery resident. He said, “You
know what, Patrick? I didn't spend a lot of time with my chil‐
dren when they were young, and so I feel like I missed out on
them growing up. That is something that I regret.”
This was years before I met my wife and years before my
son was born, but they are such a huge part of my life and my
world now—two people that bring me joy and fulﬁllment
beyond measure. And yet, had I not listened to the part of me
that knew I wasn’t on the path I was meant to be walking, they
might not be here with me now. It’s a sobering fact, one that
makes me incredibly grateful I had the opportunity to change
my life so dramatically and also grateful that I listened to my
intuition, tuning out all the outside noise to focus instead on
what I really needed to learn.
Have you ever gone to a seafood restaurant, grocery store or even just the
beach and seen a bunch of crabs stuck in a barrel together? You don’t have
to place a lid on it. The crabs will never escape. They’re all trying to pull
each other down. An individual crab will never escape from the box
because as soon as he gains a little height, another crab will grab him
with its pincers and pull him back down. Crabs don’t know any better,
but humans do. Instead of acting like crabs in a barrel, so desperate to
keep people beneath us no matter what, what if we worked together to get
out of the damn barrel?


===== PDF PAGE 48 ===== (images: 1: [56])
22
BURN-IN
Wherever you go, extend kindness to the people who are learning
around you, behind you and in front of you.


===== PDF PAGE 49 ===== (images: 0: [])
THREE
The Victim Mindset
If you ask almost anyone who isn’t a doctor, they’ll tell you
almost certainly that doctors are successful people and that to
be a doctor, you have to be smart, hardworking and driven.
Perhaps more importantly to some, doctors can make a lot of
money, which is, for better or worse, the most common deﬁni‐
tion of success in our society.
So many people think doctors make a ton of money, and
sure, on paper a lot of us do. But health- care costs in America
have risen exponentially, and doctor’s salaries haven’t even
kept up with inﬂation. It’s the insurance companies, hospital
administrators and pharmaceutical industries who are really
reaping the proﬁts. Doctors have poor representation because
they’re not as active in lobbying as other groups, which makes
them an easy scapegoat. So, too, does the consistent media
portrayal of the “rich doctor” stereotype.
In reality, a lot of doctors mismanage money and live
paycheck to paycheck—like the college kid who makes it to
the NFL and signs a $20 million a year contract and then goes
bankrupt when he tears his ACL. Why does that happen?
Because nobody taught him the wealth mindset. He was rich


===== PDF PAGE 50 ===== (images: 0: [])
24
BURN-IN
—with a poor mindset. He was taken advantage of by his
managers, so-called friends and family.
Doctors are also often targets for shark insurance salesmen
who will sell them expensive life insurance they don’t want or
need at prices they can’t afford, only to make the highest
commission possible for the agent. Contractors or other
people who work for you will charge extra when they ﬁnd out
you’re a doctor because they think you can stomach it and are
not that ﬁnancially savvy.
Even doctors who appear outwardly successful aren’t set
up for success. How many of us actually learned how to
manage money or run a practice or deal with burnout in
medical school or residency? I’d argue that medical school and
residency teach you to do the opposite of those things—they
teach you how to be overworked, how to not have control of
your own time and mental energy, and, for a lot of people,
how to be broke.
Add those years to the very real burdens a lot of us face in
our careers, and suddenly it seems very easy—and very
comfortable—to feel like a victim in your own life. As you look
at other people, your ego wants to protect itself, and so you
silently seethe while looking at your peers, thinking (for exam‐
ple): he's successful because his parents were both doctors, or he didn't
have student loans to pay because his parents helped him with school, or
she’s doing well because her husband makes a lot of money, so she can
take these low-paying fellowships and not worry about paying rent.
They can be successful, but I can’t be. I’m stuck with loans I’ll never
pay back. My specialty is too competitive. I’ll never get a good job. I’ll
never get that promotion. Who am I to practice medicine? I’m not good
enough. I hope they don’t ﬁgure out that I’m a fraud, an impostor. That I
don’t know what I’m doing and I don’t deserve any of this. That I’m not
worthy.
Are any of these things true, though? Or are they conve‐
nient stories we tell ourselves to soothe our egos when we feel


===== PDF PAGE 51 ===== (images: 0: [])
The Victim Mindset
25
powerless? I want to challenge you: what would your life look
like if you dropped that story? What if you stopped asking
yourself why these things happen to you? What if you began
asking how these things are happening for me? What if you
told a new story, one in which you don’t just survive being a
doctor but actually thrive? What would happen if you stopped
being a victim and started taking ownership of your life?
If there’s one thing that I’ve learned from the challenges in
my life, it’s this: if I’m going to bitch and moan it, then I’d
better own it. When I started to take ownership of my life,
everything changed dramatically and got signiﬁcantly better.
Your son may not have cancer, but I can promise you that you
will experience suffering and strife in your life. And when you
hit that threshold of struggle, what questions will you ask?
Life is not fair. Sometimes it provides you unfair advan‐
tages, and sometimes it offers injustices that make you want to
rebel. The only thing I know for sure is that you will have pain
in your life.
When you bitch and moan about your situation,
remember to own your situation. Because when you change
your questions, you change your life.
A lot of us are burned out for one simple reason: it's just the
sheer number of years of training. Most people graduate from
high school. That’s 12 years of school. Some of those people
graduate college, which adds another four. For doctors?
Double it. I went to the equivalent of 25th grade! It’s that
much more systematic indoctrination and loss of control over
your own time, especially as a medical student, where you're
drinking from a ﬁrehose of information.
So, let’s say you match—which, by the way, is getting
harder and harder. Last year, the New York Times published an


===== PDF PAGE 52 ===== (images: 0: [])
26
BURN-IN
article about the rise in medical school graduates who don’t
match—not because they aren’t worthy of becoming residents
but because there are now way more medical school graduates
than there are actual residency spots. That means people who
have $300,000 in debt ﬁnd themselves unable to work in the
ﬁeld for which they’ve gone to school—despite a chronic
nationwide doctor shortage!
For our purposes, we’ll assume you’ve matched. I’ve talked
a little bit about my experience in residency, and it might be
easy to brush that off as a “me” problem—as something I
experienced because I was in the wrong specialty. It’s likely,
though, that I would have had a hard time in any residency
program because residency, for lack of a more elegant way to
put it, sucks.
You clock in 80 hours a week, taking care of patients,
studying and trying not to mess up. There are personality
conﬂicts with colleagues and bosses, many of whom have a
unique ability to make you, an objectively smart person, feel
incredibly stupid. You’re also probably getting paid very little
money.
When I was a resident in Washington, DC my salary was
so low that I qualiﬁed for affordable housing. I was lucky not
to also be facing a ton of debt, but for people who are, every
year they aren’t earning good money intensiﬁes the pressure.
Those 80-hour weeks also don’t allow you the time to learn
the life management skills many of our peers start to master as
soon as they ﬁnish college. People in our profession also don't
go around advertising their net worth. Professors don't talk
about the money that they make. Students whose parents are
bankrolling them aren’t encouraged to make that fact known.
It’s frowned upon to talk about money, and that hurts all of us
in the long run.
I didn’t get a credit card until I was done with medical
school, which means that yes, I avoided falling into the “spend
more than you have” trap, but it also means I spent years not


===== PDF PAGE 53 ===== (images: 0: [])
The Victim Mindset
27
building credit—putting me further away from my ﬁnancial
goals. We also just don’t talk about money enough.
The idea goes that people want to become doctors
because they want to help, to do good for society. I want to do
good for society, but I also want to live in a house and provide
for my family. Nowhere in medical school are we talking
enough about the ﬁnancial realities of being a doctor—what a
strong job offer and salary looks like compared to workload,
how to run a practice efﬁciently, how to prioritize paying off
student debt versus investing for the future and so on. It’s not
just money, either—so much of my life as a student and as a
resident was about getting by when I was capable, as I now
know, of so much more.
For many people who make it through the gauntlet of medical
school, residency and even further training, the easiest option
is to take a job working for a large medical conglomerate—I
won’t name names here, but you can probably guess the places
I’m talking about.
This work can be incredibly appealing for people who
have spent the last decade being told what to do and when to
do it because it’s more of the same. You’re a W2 employee,
you get to work when they tell you to get to work and you see
whatever patients they assign to you. You get, in short, what
you get. The salary is exciting—how could it not be after
spending so much time scrimping and saving to get by? You’re
not thinking about the fact that you don't really know how to
use it, how to invest it or how to spend it unless you've been
doing research on the outside. And we know, when you’re in
medical school or residency, how much time there is for
outside interests (if you’re not a doctor and you happen to be
reading this book, the answer is “none”).
You're set up for failure, in my opinion, because nobody


===== PDF PAGE 54 ===== (images: 0: [])
28
BURN-IN
teaches you about ﬁnances. They teach you to be a doctor, but
you can't just be a doctor because now, medicine is truly a
business. That's why health-care costs have risen exorbitantly.
That's why the administrators are taking huge cuts from you.
That's why there's so much insurance pushback.
Money, though, is an integral part of living. It's not like
you're a monk living off people's donations. You must work to
live. You must do everything for yourself. You must make it to
support your family and pay off the hundreds of thousands of
dollars in student loans that you’ve been avoiding. You’re also
a doctor, and it’s easy to fall down the rabbit hole of spending
what you think you’re entitled to spend. Why shouldn’t I have a
nice car? you might wonder. Why shouldn’t I buy my wife that
diamond tennis bracelet or sign my kids up for private horseback riding
lessons? I’m not here to shame you about whatever it is you
spend your money on—that’s your choice! I am here to point
out that way too many doctors are living paycheck to
paycheck, which in turn keeps them working more hours in
jobs that make them miserable.
After the bloom of making money wears off—and trust
me, it does wear off—you start to get pissed off about things
that you don’t expect, like the amount of paperwork attached
to even the simplest patient visits. There’s a whole bureau‐
cracy that you don’t understand, and then you start to create
adversarial relationships—not only with your patients (who
can piss you off when they don't listen to you) but also with
your employer when you don't see things eye to eye. When
you, the doctor, are overruled by an administrator who
wouldn’t last a day in your shoes.
You don't understand why you can't have everything you
want, like why you can't get paid more money, why you don't
have more support staff, why you have to work these long
hours. And the reality is all of those are still your choices. It's
not like you were forced to accept one contract over another


===== PDF PAGE 55 ===== (images: 0: [])
The Victim Mindset
29
or forced to work in any particular place. But you thought you
were. You thought that this was it.
It’s no wonder, then, that so many doctors get stuck in
what I call the victim mindset. They feel sorry for themselves,
like it’s too late to make a change. From there, it’s a slippery
slope to a bitterness that radiates outward—your family feels
it, your coworkers feel it and your patients feel it.
On paper, doesn’t that sound nuts? We’re some of the
most educated people in the country and plenty of us are
making over or multiples of six ﬁgures every year. Why do we
feel so put-upon, so exhausted, so burnt out?
A lot of the hospitals and administrators don't get it. How
many emails have you gotten encouraging you to drink more
water and get more exercise? That doesn’t work. It’s slapping
a Band-Aid on a bullet wound, and all the free yoga classes or
7 pm “cheers to our medical heroes” in the world aren’t going
to stop you from bleeding to death.
So, what do we do?
I think that the answer, ultimately, comes from within. It
comes from taking responsibility. From recognizing that there is
so much in this world that we can’t control, but that there are so,
so many things we have the miraculous freedom to get to choose.
Think about all the stuff in your house. How much of it
do you want? How much of it do you need or use on a daily
basis? This isn’t a Marie Kondo thing—I’m not going to tell
you to clean out your garage to ﬁnd inner peace. But how
much of the stuff in your house is stuff you bought to impress
other people? That you bought because you thought you
“should” have it? Imagine how much lighter you’d feel if you
only spent money on things that genuinely made you feel good
with no input from anyone else. Yeah, you might have less
shiny stuff, but what would you have more of?
I live in Modesto, about an hour and a half inland of San
Francisco. It’s not what anyone would call a bustling


===== PDF PAGE 56 ===== (images: 0: [])
30
BURN-IN
metropolis, and as someone who has always lived in big cities
or fancy college towns, moving here was a big adjustment. I
don’t have access to incredible ﬁne dining or opera or a huge
community of people who think the way I do.
What I do have is more patients because there are fewer
dermatologists in the area for me to compete with and there‐
fore a greater demand for my skillset. I also have a bigger
house where my son can run around and play, and my wife
and I can relax and host our families and friends. I have
grateful patients—people who come to me and are apprecia‐
tive to be in my ofﬁce. So, am I going to complain about living
in Modesto? Well, I shouldn’t! I chose to live here, and there are
trade-offs in anything in life. The trade-off, for me, was worth
it. Here in Modesto with my family, I feel like I’m waking up
every day and choosing the life I live.
I don’t want the takeaway from this chapter to be that to
stop feeling like a victim, you have to move to Modesto. This
wouldn’t have been the right choice for everyone. Maybe what
gives you purpose is living within walking distance of a
museum or a zoo or living in the mountains in a cabin without
electricity. I want the takeaway to be this: you have the
freedom to create and cultivate a beautiful life of your own
choosing.
Like so much of what I’ve come to believe, I look back at
my life and see that the power of choice was knocking on my
door long before I actually answered.
At Berkeley, I taught chemistry as a sophomore. My freshman
year, I took Chem 1A. It's a weeder course, which means of
the 1,500 of us who took it, more than half were expected to
drop out. It was a sink-or-swim environment where if you
didn’t swim, you were going to fail your course. You were
going to get a D or an F. Nobody was holding anyone’s hand.


===== PDF PAGE 57 ===== (images: 0: [])
The Victim Mindset
31
It was too big a school for anyone to give the kind of detailed
attention I was used to as a kid who had gone to very good
schools with small class sizes.
After the ﬁrst semester of chemistry, if you want to
continue in the pre-med curriculum, then you take Organic
Chemistry. Maybe 900 kids ﬁnish Chem 1A, and then 800 go
on to Organic Chemistry. Half of them drop out by the
second semester. Basically, it's a great halving. You’re halved at
every step of the way until it's the cream of the crop—like a
Bitcoin worth a million bucks at the end of it all. There’s no
number cap, though—all 1,500 kids, if they have the drive, if
they have the hustle, if they study hard enough, could pass or
even get As.
People have different ideas of what they want in college.
Some people get trapped by party culture and want to rush
frats and drink a lot. Some people felt pressured by their
parents to do pre-med when what they really wanted to do
was study poetry. There are probably a million reasons that
not everyone could get an A, even though everyone has the
potential. Everyone, in a sense, has the choice.
Just because you want something, or think you want some‐
thing, doesn't mean that you deserve it or that you’re meant to
have it. You deserve it once you get through the grit. You don't
deserve to make a beautiful meal if you haven't put in the
hours to hone your craft, and there’s no shame in wanting to
order takeout instead.
I did well in general chemistry and cruised through it. I
did the work required, but it was the minimum work. I didn't
spend a lot of time outside of class studying because I had a
good grasp of the material already. If I had wanted to do
more than what it took to get by, I’d have options. Students at
Berkeley have a lot of access to the professors, whether they’re
going to in-person lectures, watching online or both. Then
there are tutors that are freely available, undergrads who have
already ﬁnished the chemistry course and can provide help.


===== PDF PAGE 58 ===== (images: 0: [])
32
BURN-IN
Not thinking I needed to avail myself of these resources, I
phoned it in for general chemistry and did well. I got an A.
My second semester, I did organic chemistry. I treated it the
same way as general chemistry because, I thought, I'm a smart
kid—I've proven it. Doing the bare minimum got me an A ﬁrst semester,
so why should this be any different?
That was a rude awakening for me. I'd never done organic
chemistry prior to coming to Berkeley, so I had no real frame‐
work for the material, and I couldn't phone it in. It was all
new knowledge, all new information. Yeah, I was smart, but
that’s not enough when you’re being ﬂooded with molecules
and retrosynthesis that might as well be in another language.
My ﬁrst midterm, I got the worst grade I'd ever seen in my
entire life. I was an A student my whole life, and my ﬁrst
semester at Berkeley, I got a 3.95 average. I got an A-minus in
my music class because I just phoned it in there, and I didn't
work hard. I was pissed off, and I blamed the instructor, my
music partner, the material—everyone and everything except
myself. I didn’t take ownership of my own work, and I
couldn’t see that I didn't deserve an A.
Back in Organic Chemistry, I wasn’t just annoyed about
my grade—I was shocked. In bright red ink on my exam was
115/155, and for the ﬁrst time ever, I was a C student. It was
a huge wake-up call. Again, I wanted to blame other people. I
said, “My instructor's not good.” It's very easy to put the
blame on others. It's a lot more challenging when you have to
take ownership of it yourself.
After I got my horrifying grade, the instructor, in his
melodic French accent, said, “I'm going to write down the
initials of the people who got the highest score on the
exam.” So it was A. J., 153 out of 155. Then the second
highest score was J. S., 151. I thought, Man, that is the caliber
of student that I have been in my life. That is what I deserve. How do
I get there?
I emailed the graduate student instructor and said, “Hey, I


===== PDF PAGE 59 ===== (images: 0: [])
The Victim Mindset
33
didn't do as well as I had hoped on my exam. How do I get
the high score?”
She replied with one sentence: “Do practice problems.”
So, I did practice problems! Instead of phoning it in, I did
all the homework and then some. I read the textbook and
taught myself. I did every practice problem, and when I
couldn’t ﬁgure something out, I would ask for help. I would go
to the tutor. I would read the text again. I would look at
another problem and see if I could parallel it. I would go to
ofﬁce hours.
On the second midterm, I didn't get the highest score, but
I did get the second highest. My graduate student was very
proud of me—I had gone from being a C student in the
middle of the pack to an A+ student back where I thought I
belonged, at the top of the pack.
That's what showed me. It's not about your talent, and it’s
not about what you think you’re entitled to. I could have been
satisﬁed with my C-level midterm score—it was a passing
grade, one that would have let me continue on to the next
semester. I could have been mad about it and stayed mad,
ignoring my own responsibility for the grade. I could have—as
a lot of people do—let it fester inside, turning me from an
excited and eager student into a kid who was bitter and
burned out before he even ﬁnished undergrad.
What I learned, aside from a lot about organic chemistry,
is that I was and am an active participant in my own life. I
woke up and made the choice to take the class seriously, just
like I woke up and made the choice to switch ﬁelds, to move to
Modesto and to write this book.
If you feel burned out, does the world need to change in
order for you to stop feeling the burnout? Because if you're
going to wait for the world to change to accommodate you
and make you feel less burned out, you're out of luck. Partly
because the world doesn’t revolve around you, and partly
because even when things outside do change, you’re still you.


===== PDF PAGE 60 ===== (images: 0: [])
34
BURN-IN
So many people think, “First, I must have this thing, and then
I'll do this thing, and then I'll be happy.” It's have, do, be.
Once you have a million dollars, then you'll take a vacation
and then be happy. Or once you have $10 million, then you'll
retire and then you'll be happy.
But guess what? If you’re making $300,000 a year and
you’re unhappy, you’re not going to be substantially happier
making $1,000,000 or $10,000,000. Having billions of dollars
does not change who you are or where you are. No matter
where you go and no matter how much money you have, you
don't fundamentally change who you are. And if we accept
that to be true, we have to ask ourselves: what will more
money actually do? What, at the end of the day, is the point?
I think it’s this: start from the inside out. Burnout comes
from the outside in. It’s pressure other people place on you; it’s
systems you can’t control; it’s playing a game you’ll never win.
Burning in, on the other hand, is about nurturing the ﬁre
inside. It’s about tending to that ﬁre, twig by twig and branch
by branch, until it’s roaring strong enough to warm you and
show you the light of what you’re meant to be and where
you’re meant to go.
A lit candle, left to its own devices, will burn out. It’s a tenuous ﬂame,
subject to being extinguished by any little thing—a gentle breeze, the close
of the door or someone walking by too quickly. Rocked by the external
world, the candle blows out and dies, and to light it again you have to
start over from the very beginning. It would be easier, if your ﬂame went
out, to simply stay in the dark forever.
But if you treat the gentle ﬂame that is your soul as a sacred ﬁre, and
care for it and love it and fuel it with paper, wood or rocket fuel, it grows
stronger. So strong that before you know it, you’ll be shining hot and bright
enough to keep an entire house full of people cozy and warm. You’ll be


===== PDF PAGE 61 ===== (images: 1: [70])
The Victim Mindset
35
able to see clearly. All from the starting point of a single candle whose
ﬂame kept burning even through the darkest of nights.
Tend to your candle from the inside out. Your ﬂame cannot be extin‐
guished by a draft or a storm. The more you protect it, the stronger it will
burn.


===== PDF PAGE 62 ===== (images: 0: [])
FOUR
Here and Now
At one point early in my career, I considered joining a start-
up. It was a good idea—one I’d had myself, actually—rooted
in the service on-demand model so popular in Silicon Valley
(think Uber for Botox). After doing some research, I discov‐
ered another doctor had already set something similar into
motion, and after a few conversations, he made it clear I’d be
more than welcome to become part of his lean team.
In the end I moved on to another opportunity, but the
experience taught me something that has been at the founda‐
tion of what I’ve accomplished over the last few years: I am an
entrepreneur. It took some time to realize it and a little more
time to embrace it, but now I can’t imagine living any
other way.
You know who else is an entrepreneur? My mother. She
was the ﬁrst doctor and one of the ﬁrst real estate investors I
knew. Her business was local, consisting of single-family
homes that she could easily drive to.
Renting single-family homes can be a win-win situation.
The tenant is happy because they have a nice place to live and
don't have to put down $60,000 to own the place. In turn,


===== PDF PAGE 63 ===== (images: 0: [])
Here and Now
37
they don't have to deal with a $10,000 expense when the roof
leaks or a $5,000 charge when the air conditioning needs to be
ﬁxed. The landlord receives many beneﬁts as well, including
having a tenant pay down their mortgage and increasing their
net worth through an increase of equity in the property over
time. It’s not always that easy, though.
Landlords put themselves in a vulnerable position because
they are the ones who have to put down $60,000 to take on the
loan. They are responsible for paying the debt. If the tenant
stops paying, breaks all the windows or clogs the toilets, who is
on the hook? The landlord.
And my mom had some less-than-ideal experiences! I’m
not sure how she was screening tenants (or if she was
screening tenants). I know she dealt with renters who didn’t
pay, who trashed her assets (turning them into liabilities) and
whose demands meant she had to spend a lot more time at her
properties than she probably would have liked to.
As an aside—how crazy is it that I remember all of this so
vividly? Things I saw and experienced when I couldn’t have
been more than 10 years old are now sense memories for me,
ones that have remained so strong that when I ﬁrst started
buying rental properties, I knew I had to hire a property
manager without even thinking about it.
My mom’s properties were all in California, and they were
all single-family homes—no out-of-state investing, no multi-
family units, no commercial properties, triple net lease proper‐
ties, no strip malls, no medical facilities, no ofﬁce buildings (all
things I’ve done in the last year, incidentally).
She was—and still is—a boss. Both of my parents speak
ﬂuent Vietnamese, English and French, and it was important
to them that in addition to thriving in school, we also learned
about where they came from—where we came from. How can
you preserve the home country’s traditions and language
when you’re in a new world?


===== PDF PAGE 64 ===== (images: 0: [])
38
BURN-IN
An ocean separated my parents from their homeland, and
I can’t imagine the culture shock they must have experienced
when they came here and had to learn not just a new
language but also new cultural norms and values—even how
to stand in lines the “American” way. But I believe America is
the only place where my parents would have been able to
achieve everything they’ve achieved.
It's your birthright in America to pursue freedom, happi‐
ness, liberty and love. It’s your birthright in America to give
your children everything you want them to have, which is also
something my parents did for us. They helped me pay my
tuition at Berkeley, and I lived at home most of the time I
went there—how lucky was I to be able to have their support?
I spent my ﬁrst year in the dorms and realized that while
dorm life might have been a huge part of someone’s college
experience, it wasn’t going to be a huge part of mine. I went
back to live with my family in our home, and I rented a
parking spot on campus for a fraction of what I’d have paid to
live there all four years.
This is perhaps a long-winded way of saying that real
estate, like medicine, is something that has been part of my
life and part of my journey since before I even knew what or
who I wanted to be. It felt natural to come back to it years
after I watched my mom begin to invest in single-family
homes, though I knew my path would look a little different
than hers had.
Part of my reason for moving to Modesto was that unlike
Mountain View, where I did my fellowship, you can actually
live comfortably there without also being a tech millionaire. I
bought my ﬁrst house in the fall of 2019 just after Adrian was
born—we brought him home to our tiny one-bedroom apart‐
ment and quickly realized we needed more room to stretch
our limbs as we got used to life as a family of three.
Owning that house, which we lived in until recently, was


===== PDF PAGE 65 ===== (images: 0: [])
Here and Now
39
like being bitten by a bug—the real estate bug. In the winter
of 2020, I signed up for a class by Leti and Kenji on investing
with a focus on real estate for doctors. I’ve always been inter‐
ested in ﬁnance blogs, so I jumped into the material with
gusto. So much gusto that I didn’t actually ﬁnish because I felt
certain I could ﬁgure it out on my own. Life, as they say, got in
the way. Suddenly, it was a few months later and I got an
email:
“Hey! Have you bought a property yet?”
I had been so gung-ho the ﬁrst round that it had kept me
from slowing down and taking the steps to get to the next
level, which in my case was buying my ﬁrst income-producing
property.
I decided I was going to take the course again and do it
right this time (which I didn’t ﬁnish—but at least I took action
on it), and by August of 2020, I’d closed on my ﬁrst property
—my ﬁrst four properties, as it happened, because if I was in
for a penny, I ﬁgured, I might as well be in for a pound. I had
the down payments for them from my previous investing, most
of which were held in stock and cryptocurrency. Instead of
having all my money in equities, the majority of which were
held in low-cost index funds, I sold a lot of it and started
investing in more diverse properties. This was better for me
tax-wise, and it had more potential for me to accelerate my
growth.
That’s when I started grinding. That's when I started
calling all the realtors. That's when I hit the market. That's
when I read more books about real estate, got online and
found communities of other people like me who had the same
goals. In October 2020, I joined a business coaching group
and met a CRNA named Matt during a discussion of FIRE
principles. FIRE, as I mentioned before, stands for Financial
Independence, Retire Early. The idea is that during your
prime working years, you’re stashing away as much cash as


===== PDF PAGE 66 ===== (images: 0: [])
40
BURN-IN
possible and funneling it toward your preferred investment
vehicle.
If you make $100,000 a year, let’s say, FIRE aﬁcionados
might suggest you live on half of that and get the rest of it
working. Eventually, when you reach a certain number, you
quit working and live happily ever after painting majestic
mountain scenes or volunteering at an animal rescue center or
whatever it is that makes you truly happy.
Some people hit FIRE once they’ve got $500,000 in the
bank and plan to live on $20,000 a year for the rest of their
lives under the 4 percent safe withdrawal assumption. And if
that’s all they need to live on, I salute them. I, however, want
to have more than that stashed away, which is how Matt and I
got to talking. I learned about his investments—which, when
we ﬁrst met, were doing better than mine—and I learned
about different asset classes in real estate.
A single-family home and a duplex are two kinds of assets.
With each, you’re dealing with individuals, relying on infor‐
mation like credit scores and references from former landlords
and hoping they don’t steer you wrong. I was doing well for
myself by owning duplexes and other residential properties,
but when I started talking with Matt about how I could make
the kind of money he was making, it became clear that what
needed to change wasn’t my strategy or even my money but
my thinking. I needed to think bigger.
The kind of asset I’m now most interested in is commer‐
cial property, which means instead of renting to a person, I’m
renting to UPS. Now, my biggest building is an ofﬁce space.
Wells Fargo is my tenant. The IRS is my tenant. I don’t worry
about them making rent or paying on time, and I don’t worry
about them calling me in the middle of the night about a
broken toilet. I started playing with high-level people—people
who are real hustlers worth 10 or even 100 times what I'm
worth. I’m in the same room and I’m learning, for which I
never forget to be grateful.


===== PDF PAGE 67 ===== (images: 0: [])
Here and Now
41
They say you're the average of the ﬁve people you spend
the most time with. So, income, happiness, marriage—it's just
the people you spend time with. If you spend time with people
who are low net worth and who are not thinking at a high
level, you're going to be the same. If you want to grow your
net worth, you've got to hang around people who are million‐
aires. You can't be a billionaire without learning from million‐
aires. And you know what’s amazing? Some of these guys
whose bank accounts far exceed mine (at least for now) have
been so generous with their time and their advice.
My friend Matt had only been doing this for a few years
before we met, but he’d found a path, and when he was there,
he tossed me a rope so I could ﬁnd my way to the next level,
too. In January 2021, I closed on my ﬁrst strip mall, and now I
have corporate tenants who sign long leases—and handle all
the maintenance themselves.
My life today looks very different from my life three years ago.
I’m building my business and I’m exploring what it means to
be a whole, happy, healthy person. I have a beautiful wife, and
in 2019, we welcomed our son Adrian. As a baby, the biggest
scare he gave us was one a lot of new parents face.
He favored lying on his right side and developed a condi‐
tion called plagiocephaly, which is a dramatic way of saying
his head was getting a little ﬂat. It happens to millions of kids,
and the ﬁx is simple if you catch it early enough: just
encourage him to lie on the other side. We caught it a little
later, and while we tried the exercises and activities to prevent
it from worsening, we were not getting the correction we
needed.
The skull bones fuse by a certain time, at which point
there’s no going back. So, we put him in a helmet designed to
restrict growth in one area and allow for growth of the skull in


===== PDF PAGE 68 ===== (images: 0: [])
42
BURN-IN
the other. If anything, wearing this tiny helmet just empha‐
sized what a cute baby he was, and it’s not something kids
need to do for years—he’s not even two yet and he’s already
done wearing it. It made my wife and me feel guilty, but
Adrian couldn’t have been a happier, easier-to-love little boy.
My wife started to notice some changes in his growth. It
seemed like he was getting skinnier in the cheeks, and then it
seemed like he was growing more on one side of his body than
the other. But he was still on his growth curve.
He didn't have any symptoms. He didn't have a fever. He
didn't have nausea or pain. He was running around, a happy-
go-lucky kid. But my wife’s maternal instincts were showing
her that something wasn’t right. I’m a doctor, my family is full
of doctors, I have friends who are doctors—Adrian was
surrounded by doctors. But it was my wife who knew, when so
many people missed it, that there was a problem. She initially
thought it might be a blockage, but that didn’t make sense
to me.
I look back even then on those few weeks when we
could've solved the mystery a little earlier. It wouldn’t have
made much of a difference, but I wish I had been able to
somehow magically see what was going on. One day, she was
giving him a bath and pointed out the changes in his abdomen
to me. I knew we had to take it seriously.
We did a video visit with Adrian’s pediatrician, who
thought it might be any number of things. As a dad and as a
doctor, my mind immediately went to a worst-case scenario—
that my precious son, so new to the world and with so much to
see and learn and do, could be sick. Really sick.
After Adrian’s surgery, there were complications. A week
after the operation, when he should have been recovering and
getting ready for the next steps of his treatment, he seemed to
be getting sicker. He started vomiting green bile one day, and
his doctor realized there was an obstruction from intussuscep‐


===== PDF PAGE 69 ===== (images: 0: [])
Here and Now
43
tion. Just like his cancer, it was another rare issue—so rare his
surgeon had only seen it once before in his entire medical
career.
Still, there were signs of hope. We weren’t sure at ﬁrst if
his team would be able to remove the tumor in one piece.
Sometimes tumors are so big or so unwieldy and matted down
to other organs that all a surgeon can do is take a biopsy. If
this had happened to Adrian, it would have meant a round of
chemotherapy to shrink the tumor and then another opera‐
tion. And the biopsy automatically upstages it to Stage Three.
But we were lucky—it came out in one piece, and we learned
that it had only progressed to Stage Two.
He started radiation, which can have long-term effects.
When it hits a child’s spine, it alters their growth. And if you
just hit one side, you get scoliosis. They took steps to make
sure that the curvature of his back wouldn’t be affected by
going across the center of the spine, but the trade-off for
doing that is you end up losing a couple of inches in height.
I’m already not a tall guy! My wife is 5’4” with shoes on.
Height is nothing compared to long-term health, but still, I
thought, I don't want my child to be short. As his father, I want him
to get well, and I also want to give him the best life he can
possibly have. I want him to have everything and then some.
After radiation came chemotherapy, which can render some
kids infertile. Again, I thought, what if my son is unable to have
children of his own? But what are any of these things, these
concerns about what his future might look like, compared to
his precious life, his chance to just breathe and live on earth?
Adrian is in the middle of his chemotherapy treatments now,
and he is truly a joyful, spirited little boy. He loves playing with
his trucks and climbing everything from tables to his mother,


===== PDF PAGE 70 ===== (images: 0: [])
44
BURN-IN
grinning at me when I take his picture. So much of what I do
—everything I do—is for him, and I feel blessed that I’m able
to give him a happy home and the best doctors.
I’m blessed that my ﬁnancial situation is such that my wife
can stay home with him and that we aren’t constantly
worrying about paying medical bills (although they are expen‐
sive—I opted for a high deductible health plan and HSA
because I assumed we were young and healthy and would
have little need for medical care. Isn’t it ironic? And not in an
Alanis Morissette kind of way?).
Money, though, isn’t all I can give him. I think a lot of
parents fall into the trap of materialism—of thinking that kids
need stuff and it’s our job to give it to them. I won’t say Adrian
doesn’t love his toys because he does! But he also loves me, his
mom and strangers he waves to when we’re at Costco and that
love is something he and I can give each other.
It’s something I’ve learned from and I’m still learning
from, and it was the catalyst for a lot of the personal growth
work I’ve spent the last year doing. Because Adrian doesn’t
need a dad who is burned out, exhausted, stressed and angry.
He needs a dad whose ﬁre burns powerfully from within, with
a ﬂame that creates bright light, warmth and strength for him
and his mom.
I won’t say it’s always easy or that I’m perfect because it’s
not and I’m not. What I will say is that the biggest lesson I’ve
learned over the last year is that I have the power to choose
happiness for myself and for my family every day. I have the
power to teach my ego and rational mind to let go of what
doesn’t serve it and how to seek out what nourishes it. Some‐
times it shocks people, but I often say that Adrian’s cancer was
the best thing that ever happened to me. It showed me who I
am and what I’m capable of.
As I’ve set out on this journey, my goals are to ﬁnd ways to
be happier and ways to live for the now, in the now. To keep


===== PDF PAGE 71 ===== (images: 0: [])
Here and Now
45
my feet solidly on the ground and my mind stretching toward
the moon and beyond, because that’s where I’m going.
My intentions are to dig down deep and create a solid
platform from which I can keep reaching higher to realize my
full human potential, to achieve ﬁnancial success and to
continue climbing the ladders that were set in front of me.
Because I know now that I can go to the moon. I can build a
real estate empire, and I can pursue enlightenment and inner
peace at the same time.
And if I can do it? So can you.
Three words: intention, attention, retention.
That becomes: IN-AT-RE.
This can sound like the word “innate” (like an intrinsic part of your
being) or you can add an imaginary “U” to make it sound like the word
“nature.”
If there is something or anything you want to accomplish, ﬁrst you set
the intention, like a goal.
Then you give it your attention, which means being present for the
task at hand to accomplish that goal.
Finally, retention is remembering the goal and making sure it sticks
with you.
You can release stress and tension by doing the above IN-AT-RE
cycle. It enables you to be present and happy because you’re setting and
achieving goals not at random but by your own careful planning and
design.
Did you know that when building a skyscraper, the height of the
building is determined by the depth of its foundation? That which is built
up must ﬁrst be built down.


===== PDF PAGE 72 ===== (images: 1: [82])
46
BURN-IN
Set intentions and honor them. Dig deep and build a foundation
worthy of the success that you deserve. Give yourself the gift of commit‐
ting to the life you want to live, every day at every step.


===== PDF PAGE 73 ===== (images: 0: [])
FIVE
Egos and Superpowers
In Vietnam, there is a proverb that reads, “Ai giu ba h, ai
khó ba i” which, loosely translated, means that wealth is
built and subsequently lost within three generations. The ﬁrst
generation is the opposite of wealthy—they’re poor. They’re
hardworking, and that hard work is for the sole purpose of
making a better life for their children and their children’s chil‐
dren. Imagine a laborer, someone working in the ﬁelds or in a
factory, putting aside a few dollars whenever they can to go
toward schoolbooks, tuition or a ticket to a city or country
with better opportunities.
The second generation reaps the beneﬁts of that hard
work and carries with them the memories of what it looked
like. They’ve seen ﬁrsthand how much their parents struggled
and are determined to make them proud—and to give their
own children the things they went without as they worked
toward a brighter tomorrow.
The third generation hears stories of the ﬁrst generation,
and they feel the love of the second. They, too, want to make
their parents proud, maybe by going to law school or medical
school or starting businesses that will eventually change the
world. It’s through this third generation that the dream of the


===== PDF PAGE 74 ===== (images: 0: [])
48
BURN-IN
ﬁrst is realized—that instead of toiling for necessities, their
descendants work for something greater. Something more.
What about the fourth generation? That, if you ask people
who subscribe to this theory, is where wealth is lost or begins to
be lost. Imagine a son taking over his father’s medical practice.
The son was pushed into medicine; but for his father, it was a
calling. The son takes over the patient panel, but patients recog‐
nize that he is unhappy and doesn’t care as much as his father
did. Everyone doubts that he can maintain the family business.
And then, imagine the son’s son who is now lazy, playing video
games all the time, apparently incapable of lifting a finger to
help around the house because there’s a maid and he is entitled.
Think about the stereotypical spoiled rich kid, the one
who crashes his dad’s Mercedes and goes to an expensive art
school despite not having the drive or talent to craft great art.
Or the rash of rich kids getting into car accidents while
driving drunk and then using “afﬂuenza” as a defense. The
kid at the club, ordering bottle service to impress his friends
with money that he didn’t work for and that he doesn’t
deserve. The kid with the trust fund that seems like it’s never
going to run out—until it does.
Why does that kid spend his money on things that don’t
last? On things that are meant to impress other people? Why
do I spend money on things meant to impress other people?
Why do you do it? If owning a Ferrari, giving your wife a
$100,000 Birkin bag for Christmas or buying your kid a
million-dollar pony brings you joy, I’m not here to tell you that
you can’t have a Ferrari or a Birkin or a pony. But if you’re
buying Ferraris and Birkins and ponies and they don’t make
you feel much of anything at all, I think there’s one answer to
the question of why exactly you’re buying them:
Ego.
If you’re rolling your eyes right about now thinking, okay,
here comes another guy telling me to shed my ego and live a life of service


===== PDF PAGE 75 ===== (images: 0: [])
Egos and Superpowers
49
to others, you’re not too far off base—because I am going to
challenge you to do those things. I also think, though, that
sometimes the concept of ego gets a bad rap.
My take on ego is that it’s what helps you get work done.
Your ego is where stress and pressure come from, and I don’t
think stress and pressure are always bad things. I had a huge
ego—and I still do sometimes, which is lucky, because I have a
lot of work to get done.
Ego is what pushed me to say I was going to go to Berkeley
before I got in. Ego is what pushed me, once I was there, to
buckle down and improve my Organic Chemistry grade.
Getting a “bad” grade damaged my ego—I had an idea of
myself as a smart guy who got good grades, and not living up
to that was like holding a bunch of balloons and seeing one of
them get popped. Medical school, as I’m sure some of you
reading this are aware, is a place where egos abound, for
better and for worse. We all want to impress our teachers and
residents, absorb the most information, show the most
promise as plastic surgeons or dermatologists or internists.
That’s ego!
Picture Beyoncé. Whether or not you’re a fan, no one can
deny her talent and her work ethic. In 2013, she directed and
starred in a documentary called Beyoncé: Life Is But a Dream. It’s
a collection of material ﬁlmed over the course of her career,
and in a key moment from 2011, we see Beyoncé getting ready
to perform at that year’s Billboard Music Awards. “Getting
ready” is an understatement: the performance itself involves
the human Beyoncé dancing in sync with a stage full of digital
Beyoncés.
Not only do her dance moves have to be ﬂawless, they
have to match up with the clones of herself on the screens
behind her. It’s like matching lip-syncing to a backing track,
except with her whole body and no do-overs. The rehearsals,
as we see in the ﬁlm, are punishing. She does the moves over


===== PDF PAGE 76 ===== (images: 0: [])
50
BURN-IN
and over, willing her body to move in time with the backdrop
of perfect Beyoncés.
Later, before the show itself, Beyoncé talks into her
camcorder. It’s an intimate moment with one of the world’s
biggest celebrities, and she sounds exhausted. The perfor‐
mance she’s designed might be too hard, she says. She knows
when she’s bitten off more than she can chew, and she’s not
too proud to admit that maybe this time things just aren’t
going to go her way.
The next scene we see is the performance. It starts with no
less than Michelle Obama and Bono talking about what an
icon Beyoncé is, and features both of her parents reminiscing
about how much she wanted this very moment as a little girl.
Finally, after a countdown, Beyoncé hits the stage. Her moves
are ﬂawless. To an observer who did not see the grit that came
before the glory, it might appear that she woke up ﬂawless. She
doesn’t miss a beat or a step. Seriously, you should look it up
on YouTube—but ﬁnish reading this chapter ﬁrst.
Does Beyoncé have a big ego? You might say yes—she’s a
huge star who jets around the world on yachts doing basically
whatever she wants whenever she wants. But I see a person
who has balance: the drive an ego gives you to work harder and
the humility to admit you don’t have control over everything.
Beyoncé having a big ego in the harmful sense would
mean staging this expensive and elaborate show and then not
practicing at all. Saying, “I’m Beyoncé—why do I need to
rehearse when people will pay to come see me no matter
what?” When that happens, people can tell that you’re missing
the mark—and why? Because you thought you were too good
to practice. Because, once again, your ego got in the way of
your success. If Beyoncé did that, she would begin to lose her
appeal and popularity, as the trust her fans placed in her to
deliver a stellar performance would begin to erode.
I’d be lying if I said that my ego has only served to help
me work harder and get smarter throughout my life, because it


===== PDF PAGE 77 ===== (images: 0: [])
Egos and Superpowers
51
hasn’t. I’ve spent plenty of time letting my ego rule the rest of
my life, and the results weren’t great. I wasn’t happy! And all
around me, for so many years, I saw other doctors—people I
was supposed to look up to—display egos so big that it’s a
medical miracle they were ever able to ﬁt their heads through
the doors leading to their respective operating rooms.
This shouldn’t come as news to you. A lot of surgeons
think they’re God’s gift to this earth. They think they need to
have a servant or nurse follow them around everywhere and
hold a little velvet plush pillow under their balls for support so
that they are elevated at just the right height, perfectly cush‐
ioned, not too hot but not too cold—Goldilocks style.
The stereotype of the playboy plastic surgeon who drives
an obnoxious red sports car and talks about boobs all day is a
stereotype for a reason (no offense to any plastic surgeons, of
course. You guys are my friends and colleagues, and we hit the
interview trail together and share patients). It’s doctors who let
their egos take over who make it a challenge for everyone else.
They create these toxic cultures where it’s okay to scream
at nurses and interns and anyone who looks at them the wrong
way. They steamroll patients, not thinking they need to take
the time to ask questions that put people at ease. They think
nobody's as smart as them. These are the people who might
cut off the wrong leg in the operating room because the
patient is asleep and cannot advocate for himself. These are
the doctors who always think they know better than their
patients.
Are people like this making the world a better place? If
one of them operated on you and cured an illness that drasti‐
cally improved your quality of life, you’d probably say yes. But
you can perform impossible surgeries without being a jerk. In
fact, not being a jerk would probably make a lot of people
better doctors.
The ﬁrst step in not being a jerk is realizing that you’re not
always right and that despite what your ego is telling you,


===== PDF PAGE 78 ===== (images: 0: [])
52
BURN-IN
other people know things you’ve never even considered. Can
you with 100 percent conﬁdence and certainty tell me that
you’ve never made a mistake in life? That you know all the
answers? Get a grip, dude. You’re just one set of eyeballs, one
brain, one human life that’s made it to 50 years old or what‐
ever age you are, and all you carry with you are your singular
life experiences, whatever textbooks you’ve read and media
you’ve consumed. And I know you, because I’ve been there,
and I thought I knew it all. I didn’t, and you don’t.
You’re a jerk and everyone around you can see it except
for you because you don’t get it. But the minute you take a
chill pill and a humility pill, you’ll ﬁnd a lot more joy in your
own life. And you’ll ﬁnd that people respect you more because
the respect you commanded previously was not that—it was
just fear. But when you are open with your heart and mind,
people love you. And there’s nothing on earth that can replace
that feeling of inﬁnite joy, love and bliss. There are two types
of people in this world: those that get it and those who haven’t
gotten it yet. The ones who haven’t gotten it yet will get it
when they decide to open their minds and hearts.
In medical school, there are students and there are teach‐
ers. You and your classmates have spent, more or less, the
same amount of time learning about medicine and what it
means to be a doctor. Likewise, your teachers, more or less,
are academics and working physicians who have years or even
decades of experience. Once school ends, and you’re thrust
into residency; you’re dealing with a much wider range of
people—and egos.
If there are any nurses reading this book (and I hope there
are), let me just say—you are amazing. Doctors can’t do what
they do without nurses, and a good nurse is worth more than
their weight in gold. That doesn’t mean that there aren’t
plenty of doctor versus nurse showdowns. Some of them are
like sibling rivalries, but others can be stressful for everyone
involved.


===== PDF PAGE 79 ===== (images: 0: [])
Egos and Superpowers
53
It starts in residency. Speciﬁcally, it starts on July 1st. Scroll
through the Instagram feeds of a bunch of nurses around the
end of June and you’ll see the jokes. July 1st is when residents
start, and some nurses like to point out how green they are—
and how if you have to go to the hospital, you might want to
wait until the fall. Most of them don’t mean to be hurtful, but
it can be hurtful! We’ve worked so hard in medical school, and
we’re so ready to spend the next few years working 80-hour
weeks, trying to become the best doctors we can be.
At the same time, I can’t imagine the feeling of being a
nurse who has spent 10 or 20 years on the job and having a
bunch of new doctors who don’t look older than 16 come in
and start telling them how to do things. I’ll tell you what: the
greatest doctors, surgeons and world thought leaders were, at
one point, July 1st interns. I was there, too, and doctors will
continue to train in this way for the foreseeable future.
Have you ever watched the TV show Scrubs? It does a
great job of capturing the interpersonal politics and the
dramas big and small that are going on in pretty much every
hospital in America. There is a power dynamic: with residents,
with doctors in training and nurses. There are nuances to it,
and it's challenging.
When I was ﬁrst starting my plastic surgery residency, I
had a nurse page me. A patient was in serious pain, and she
needed me to help. Again, I’d gone to medical school. I grew
up around doctors. I had been preparing my whole life for this
moment. And I was so afraid. I didn't know what to dose the
opioid. I didn't know how to evaluate the pain. I took a long
time to get back to her since I was looking it up and hemming
and hawing.
I'm sure, thinking about it, that she was super upset with
me! The patient was in pain, and the nurse needed me to
manage the patient’s pain medication. But I just didn't have
the knowledge or conﬁdence to do the right thing. I defaulted
back to the check-in mentality where I ran everything by my


===== PDF PAGE 80 ===== (images: 0: [])
54
BURN-IN
superior and didn’t think critically for myself as a doctor. I
deferred blame and responsibility to my senior resident, whom
I would ask for help with any little question or problem.
I recognized that fault in myself. At the end of rotation, I
got a cake for the nurses, and I took that particular nurse
aside.
“Hey,” I said. “I remember when I started. I didn't know
what I was doing, and it was wrong of me to do that.”
I wasn’t sure what to expect given the dynamics between
residents and nurses, but her response has stuck with me to
this day. She thanked me so much because no doctor had ever
done that for her. It wasn’t about the cake (though who doesn’t
love cake?). It was about me knowing that she knew better
than me at that time and also about me having the humility to
say, “I understand that at that time I didn't do the right thing,
and I'm sorry.” Years before I really started to consider what
role my ego had played in my life, this was a moment where
my humility and vulnerability broke through.
She was blown away and grateful for my response, which
to me is a shame. Doctors and nurses spend all this time bick‐
ering and sniping behind each other’s backs, but aren’t we
supposed to be on the same team? Why is it so hard for so
many of us to put down our egos and accept that some people
are going to know more than us—and that that’s awesome?
And to know that sometimes we’re the ones who know more
and to be generous with our knowledge instead of proud that
we have it and someone else doesn’t?
I hope you’re nodding your head in recognition here—not
just at my side of the story but of the nurse’s. We’ve all been
on one side or the other, and I want to challenge you: what
would it look like for you to put your ego down for a minute?
Seriously, I want you to know!
Think about a time in your career when you’ve been
locked in an egocentric power struggle and do a little choose-
your-own-adventure storytelling. Think about how things


===== PDF PAGE 81 ===== (images: 0: [])
Egos and Superpowers
55
might have played out if the other person had been willing to
put their ego aside, and then think about what would have
shaken out if you’d been the one to express a little humility.
Now imagine that scenario with you and the other person
as equals. As two people excited to pool their knowledge to
solve a problem instead of treating it like a competition.
What would that feel like? I bet you’d feel amazing.
Adrian getting sick was a huge shift for me, not just in my day-
to-day life but in my relationship with my own ego. The ﬁrst
few months of his illness were a blur, with all of us just trying
to adjust to our new normal and struggling to hold it together
from one day to the next. As I grappled with what he was
experiencing, I felt moved to reconsider my own inner life.
In October 2020, my wife and I went on a meditation
retreat. I’d begun meditating at home, and it was something I
wanted to take more seriously. It was also something I wanted
to share with her. I wanted us to continue to grow as a couple,
to be able to relate to each other and lean on each other.
I wasn’t sure what to expect. Was I going to learn all the
secrets of the universe? Was I going to talk to someone from
another realm? Was I going to just fall asleep?
It came through clearer than any message I’ve ever gotten
in my entire life. As I was sitting there in a meditative state, I
heard the universe speak to me. And do you want to know
what it said?
“You don’t know shit.”
The universe, in its inﬁnite wisdom, had looked deep into
my soul and ﬁgured out that what I needed was permission to
acknowledge that I don’t, in fact, know anything. To embrace
it. To put my ego down, stop feeling pressure to be in control
of everything all the time and just…be.
When I went back to work, my ofﬁce staff noticed that


===== PDF PAGE 82 ===== (images: 0: [])
56
BURN-IN
something was different about me. "You're being uncharacter‐
istically nice today,” they said. “What happened?”
Not feeling quite ready to process my experience with
anyone besides my closest circle, I attributed the new, chill Dr.
Patrick Tran to the fact that I had just gotten a new car, a
beautiful white Tesla Model X with white interior and these
cool falcon-wing doors that catch people’s eyes when I’m
cruising around in Modesto. And yes, the non-Alanis Morris‐
sette irony of me starting this chapter with an exhortation to
reconsider why we get so excited about new cars and then
telling people that getting a new car changed my life is not lost
on me.
A few months later, we were lucky enough to be able to
attend a second retreat, this one over the course of two nights.
Part of me had wondered if maybe what I’d experienced was
a one-off, but during my second retreat, I had similar insights
and feelings.
The second day, we were getting a meditation inner circle,
and I was incredibly deep into my journey. Other people in
the room were sitting down and meditating, and I was lying
facedown on a mattress. I remember hearing everything: the
guru leading the meditation and everyone’s lungs breathing
together in beautiful synchrony.
But I was in a different world. I was the most ecstatic, most
blissful, most at peace I had ever been in my entire life just
lying down, feeling everyone's energy together as if we were
not separate but one single organism. As if my ego, which has
served me in so many ways and continues to do so, was gently
ﬂoating away, unburdening me from having to carry it around
all the time.
With every breath, I felt my body lifting like I was
floating on a fluffy cloud. I didn't even know that such
happiness existed until then. Imagine infinite joy, love and
bliss simultaneously, all while recognizing the oneness of
everything. I’m not sure I can put it on paper. It’s like trying


===== PDF PAGE 83 ===== (images: 0: [])
Egos and Superpowers
57
to describe sex to a virgin. You can only say so much about
it in words, but until you’ve experienced the divine, you
won’t get it. Going to this retreat helped me access this state
of mind, but it’s one I’ve been able to keep tapping into on
my own.
There are many ways that people throughout the world
and in history have managed to get to that sense of peace and
bliss, whether it's Zen Buddhism, meditation, yoga, church,
sacred medicines, quiet contemplation on your own—what‐
ever works best for you is the thing that works best for you.
Some people devote their entire lives to it, but you don’t have
to. None of us do. We just have to be willing and open to the
idea that inner peace isn’t a punchline to a corny joke, and it’s
not something we’ll never achieve. We have to consider
putting down our egos and reveling in the freedom that comes
next.
Despite feeling like my eyes had been opened after a life‐
time of not seeing what was directly in front of me, I’m still
myself. I still have an ego, and I still struggle to ﬁnd the
balance between using it to power my drive and letting it
drive me.
For example, take this book you’re currently reading. It
didn’t spring from my head fully formed—I had to work on it,
and work on it a lot. I don’t exactly have a lot of free time
these days between Adrian and my family and my work and
my investments and the occasional late-afternoon hot tub soak
that is a crucial part of my self-care. I spend a lot of time on
the phone with mentors and mentees, clients, patients and
people I want to learn from.
I spend so much time on the phone that my wife, as I was
writing this very chapter, put her foot down. She was tired of
watching me do 10 things at once and tired of talking to me
only to discover that I was also talking to someone else via my
headphones. Her solution was simple—she gave me set hours
that, no matter what else is going on, I am not on the phone


===== PDF PAGE 84 ===== (images: 0: [])
58
BURN-IN
and not working on anything besides loving my family (which
is the opposite of work).
There were two paths for me here. I could let my ego do
the talking and insist that I can do it all, all the time. Or I
could look at myself and my schedule and be humble.
Acknowledge that I’ve been taking on a lot of projects and
that juggling them all is going to take occasionally putting
something aside for a few hours.
I chose option two. I told the people I work with and talk
to most often that during these hours on these days, I’m not
available—not to expect texts from me, emails from me or
calls from me. This doesn’t cost me a thing, though an earlier
version of me might have worried about missing out on some‐
thing important. What I’m getting is way more valuable than
what I’m giving up, and I can’t wait for the weekend, when I
get to spend blissful mornings in the company of the two
people I love most in the world.
How could my ego compete with that?
Someone I admire a lot is a man named Ram Dass. Born
Richard Alpert, he wasn’t much for religion or mysticism or
spirituality. He studied psychology and eventually became a
tenured professor at Harvard. Not a bad gig!
In the 1960s, he traveled to India and his whole life
changed. He devoted himself to the study of Hinduism and
eventually wrote Be Here Now, largely considered the ﬁrst text
meant to help non-Hindus learn about the religion. For
decades, he gave away all the royalties that came from the
book’s sales and worked to share what he’d learned not as a
traditional teacher but as a fellow seeker.
In 1997, he had a stroke that left him, for the ﬁrst time in
his life, completely dependent on the care of others. He chose
to interpret the stroke and his subsequent need for round-the-


===== PDF PAGE 85 ===== (images: 0: [])
Egos and Superpowers
59
clock care not as a punishment but as a gift, a message from
the universe to go inward and deeper. He had devoted his life
to learning and teaching and now, in his 60s, he was under‐
standing for the ﬁrst time what it felt like to really need other
people. “I would not wish you the stroke,” he says, “but I do
wish you the grace that came from it.”
That’s why I say Adrian getting sick has been one of the
best things that ever happened to me.
If you had asked me ﬁve years ago what my superpower
was, I might have talked about my doctoring skills or my
money. I might not have been able to answer the question
without making a joke. Aren’t superpowers for kids?
I know now that I have a superpower. My superpower, the
one that unveiled itself—or as my wife, Modesto’s number-one
RuPaul’s Drag Race superfan, might put it, “RU-VEALED”
itself—when my son got sick and I had to look beyond my ego,
is this:
I have the power to ﬁnd the grace in every moment. To
ﬁnd the beauty in how life unfolds.
It’s a blessing, and it feels like an even bigger blessing to be
able to say, with 100 percent certainty, that everyone has a
superpower. If you’re reading this? You have a superpower,
and it has nothing to do with your work or your bank account
or your car, even if you are literally Batman and your car is
the Batmobile.
It’s there, waiting for you to unlock it. From there, the
possibilities are endless.
I’m writing this book in the summer of 2021, a period when most of the
world has been wearing face coverings for the last 18 months in an
attempt to stop the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. As vaccines have
rolled out, it has become possible for us, in some situations, to take our
masks off and regain some semblance of normalcy. Never before have so


===== PDF PAGE 86 ===== (images: 1: [97])
60
BURN-IN
many people felt so collectively grateful for the feeling of fresh air moving
unobstructed through our noses, or the warmth of the sun on our entire
faces.
What if ego functions the same way as an N95 mask? Protecting us
when we need it to, but slowing us down and making it feel harder to
breathe when we don’t need it to? Think about when you can choose to put
your ego down and experience the miracle of an unobstructed breath of
fresh air. How about we take off our ego masks?
Choose humility, and let it guide you to the grace that exists within
struggle.


===== PDF PAGE 87 ===== (images: 0: [])
SIX
Mindset Over Matter
Have you ever tried to update your iPhone software to the
latest and greatest, but you’re using an old phone from six
generations ago? You know how it is—a new operating system
comes out and promises clearer photos, faster apps and thou‐
sands of new emojis to text with. But then you get a telltale
message: the new software is incompatible with your old
hardware.
That’s the best way I can describe the role mindset plays in
my life and probably in yours, too. If you’re stuck in a space
of “why me,” a space of envy, a space of assuming every
resource is ﬁnite, then I promise you that no amount of
money or success is going to bring you happiness. If your
mindset isn’t one of abundance, then more money just means
more expenditures. Generally, you will maintain your
unhealthy habits of unconscious spending and end up with
more problems. How is it possible for you to be giving when
you are constantly worried that you will run out of money or
any other resource at any given time?
The reason that toilet paper went on back order during
the COVID-19 pandemic is a scarcity mindset. People went


===== PDF PAGE 88 ===== (images: 0: [])
62
BURN-IN
out and bought toilet paper as if they were stuck in a blizzard.
As if it wasn’t a respiratory illness going around, but one that
causes massive and incessant diarrhea for everyone. And toilet
paper manufacturers could not keep up. They generally make
enough for everyone at any given time, but they couldn’t
suddenly ramp up production and kill 10 million trees in a day
because of a public freak-out.
A scarcity mindset means a version of yourself continu‐
ously trying to upgrade your software when what you really
need is new hardware. While you can’t swap or physically
upgrade your brain (yet!), you can choose to live in an abun‐
dant world. You can choose to live in a friendly universe, one
in which everything goes your way. You can live your life in a
space where you are enough, you are worthy, you are gener‐
ous. Where every resource is inﬁnite. Where you are inﬁnite.
And when you choose to live this way, you will be amazed at
what magical transformations occur in your life.
When you shift to an abundance mindset, you upgrade
your mental hardware, like getting the latest and greatest
computer chip that is way faster and more powerful. You can’t
replace your brain, but you can replace your negative attitude
with positive thoughts. You can replace your poor mindset
with a wealthy mindset. Then, the entire mental operating
system is upgraded. You go from You 1.X to You 2.0. You
remove the invisible walls of the sandbox in which you were
playing before, that tiny arena where you felt safe and
protected but also the one in which you couldn’t accomplish
anything of substance and were at risk of contracting worms
from the cats pooping in it while you were not paying
attention.
Now, you scale over the little walls of the barrel and no
other crab can claw you back down. Now, you go beyond your
limitations and journey into the inﬁnitely expansive universe
of which you are an integral part. Now, you recognize and
remember who you really are and where you came from. Now,


===== PDF PAGE 89 ===== (images: 1: [101])
Mindset Over Matter
63
you know that you’re an inﬁnite being in a physical form. You
realize that even your human body is a sandbox, and your soul
and awareness and consciousness are deeper, wider, longer,
bigger and more expansive. You become limitless and can
navigate the universe with grace.
There’s no manual on how to feel when your son has cancer.
There's no course in medical school that teaches you how to
take care of your own family when they have a serious illness.
People come to me for healing when I'm dying on the
inside, worrying about my son. I put on a brave face at work.
I'm friendly to my patients, and many of them don't have a
clue that my son is at home ﬁghting for his life.
And then I think: I have it hard? My son just barely turned
two years old. He doesn't deserve this. He doesn't deserve to


===== PDF PAGE 90 ===== (images: 0: [])
64
BURN-IN
get freaked out going to the hospital and not understanding
what's going on. He doesn't deserve to have had two surgeries
when other kids his age are happily running around and
playing with their friends. He doesn't deserve to have chemo‐
therapy and radiation—which is hard enough on an adult, let
alone a little boy small enough for me to hold in my arms.
He doesn't deserve to lose his thick, curly hair from
chemotherapy. He doesn’t deserve to have a feeding tube
shoved down his nostril into his stomach because he can't
keep food down from the chemo. He doesn't deserve to have
his immune system wiped out every three or four weeks so
that he can't fight an infection, meaning he’s in the hospital
when he has a simple fever in addition to getting chemo‐
therapy treatments that make fevers so dangerous in the first
place.
He doesn't deserve the chance that he could die before me,
his dad.
So, if Adrian doesn’t deserve what’s happening to him, I
had to wonder: is it something I did? Are all the bad things
that I've done in my life coming back to haunt me? Is it all the
bad karma that I've ever created? Every person I’ve hurt? Was
it the doctor's fault? Did the doctor miss it at his last physical,
when he pushed on his belly and said, “No tumor, no masses,
everything's ﬁne,” even though my wife was concerned about
his weight?
Who is going to step up and take responsibility for this
cancer? My mind went to some unhealthy places. I’m a
doctor: I know, objectively and on paper, that there’s nothing
that my wife or I did that made Adrian get sick. But that
doesn’t mean I didn’t wonder. I would lie awake at night and
drive myself crazy thinking about all the mistakes I’ve made,
all the people I’ve treated badly over the course of my life.
I’ve done some things I’m not proud of, and I felt, in my
darkest moments, like maybe Adrian’s cancer was a punish‐
ment the universe had sent me. Like maybe all the people who


===== PDF PAGE 91 ===== (images: 0: [])
Mindset Over Matter
65
think I’m an asshole sent this energy into the world, and it
manifested in the form of my sweet little boy getting sick.
You know who that was, whispering those things in my
ear? My ego.
Remember when I said that the greatest gift meditation
gave me was the freedom to acknowledge that I don’t know
shit? I had to tap into that insight to push beyond the idea that
Adrian’s sickness had anything to do with me. I wouldn’t wish
what he and our family are going through on my worst enemy.
And I have to believe that if you asked every single person I’ve
ever wronged if they’d be glad we’re in this place, they’d
say no.
I was so angry, and I had to come to a place of realizing
that my anger and my ego weren’t serving me. All those
thoughts that I let fester and the stories I told myself were not
helping. They did not make things better. In fact, they made things
worse! Because they took root in my brain like weeds in a
beautiful garden and kept me in a space of feeling self-
centered. A space of victimhood. It made me powerless, and
most importantly, it didn't help Adrian. Because when my
mindset wasn’t right, I did not have the capacity and the
strength to help him.
It was just like dying inside, being eaten alive by stress and
fear and worry when I needed to be a source of strength and
positive energy for my son. It wasn't until I made the
conscious decision and effort to say to myself, Adrian has cancer
and aside from what I’m already doing, there's nothing I can do about it.
And to ask myself: what choices am I going to make now?
What stories am I going to tell myself now? How am I going
to shift my mindset so that instead of waking up every day
worrying about what’s going to happen, I wake up every day
feeling at peace with the knowledge that “What is going to
happen today?” is a question I’ll never actually be able to
answer.
It’s only then that I could focus on the positive thoughts


===== PDF PAGE 92 ===== (images: 0: [])
66
BURN-IN
and bring them into Adrian’s life. Because you can’t give what
you don’t have. It wasn’t until I took responsibility for every
aspect of my life that I found my way back to happiness. Now,
instead of bringing Adrian grief, sorrow and pain, I bring him
joy, hope and love.
When I found grace and beauty in the worst moments of
my life, those moments ceased to be the worst moments of my
life. When your mind is closed, when you’re so wrapped up in
yourself that you aren’t making space for light to shine
through the cracks of whatever darkness you’ve found yourself
mired in, then you're closing off your perception, judgment
and ability to make good decisions. Most importantly, you’re
closing yourself off to possibility.
Learning to genuinely open my mind this way was a
turning point. I realized that I take 100 percent responsibility
for what happens to Adrian. I can take ownership for turning
every dial, pushing every button and adjusting every slider
that is in my reach in the battle against this cancer.
I’m an ultimate ﬁghter, and I have moved past the point of
rules. I am kicking ass and taking names. I’m not pulling any
punches, and I will bite, claw, elbow, headbutt, pile drive, curb
stomp, pull hair, gouge eyes, sweep the leg, go for the jugular,
kick it when it’s down and spit in its face at the end of a truly
no-holds-barred competition of me versus CCSK. I will ﬁght
for his life harder than anything I've ever fought for.
Adrian’s a brave little toaster too and he’s in the ring with
me, along with Alicia. I don’t carry one iota of doubt in my
mind that we will be victorious when the bell rings. Every ﬁber
in my being knows that our family will come out of this
stronger than ever. I don’t mean that through the sheer force
of will I’m going to cure Adrian’s cancer, and I don’t mean
that any parent who has a child facing cancer just isn’t trying
hard enough to get their kids well. What I mean is: why not?
Why wouldn’t Adrian get better? He’s already survived so
much, and he’s already been so lucky. How amazing is it that


===== PDF PAGE 93 ===== (images: 0: [])
Mindset Over Matter
67
I’m a doctor and my family is ﬁlled with doctors, so we’re able
to understand his treatment plans at every step of the way?
How amazing is it that Adrian’s surgeon was skilled enough to
remove his tumor in one go? How amazing is it that we live in
a time and place where radiation and chemotherapy are
readily available and have been proven to work on cancers like
Adrian’s and in children as young as he is?
Adrian’s life is a miracle. It’s a gift. Once I opened my eyes
to that magic, it became easy for me to approach each day not
with dread but with gratitude. To shift my mindset from
“What did I do to deserve this terrible thing?” to “My son, my
wife and I deserve to be happy, healthy and full of love and
joy, so that’s what we’re going to be.”
My wife Alicia recently told me that while she was in the
hospital with Adrian, she went downstairs to grab some dinner
in the cafeteria. As she walked to the elevator, she noticed a
woman bawling her eyes out, literally on the ﬂoor with a
phone held to her ear and sobbing a cry that only a broken
spirit can create from the vocal cords.
Astoundingly, Alicia told me that people were walking by
this poor woman without stopping! My beautiful guardian
angel of a wife went over and put her arm around the lady.
I’m not sure what possesses your average human being to walk
by a soul that is crying for help like that, but I’m glad that
Alicia stopped to help. The woman was destroyed because her
four-year-old daughter had just died in the pediatric ICU.
The woman was crying on the ﬂoor of a hospital and
people were just walking past her, stepping over her and trying
to not make eye contact. I cried when my wife told me this.
Not only for the woman’s grief over her dead daughter but
also for the lack of human compassion demonstrated by what‐
ever doctors, nurses, patients or whoever else ignored her.
I am so grateful that my wife was there to put her arm
around the woman and say, “Hey, you are right here. Touch
the ﬂoor with your hand. Wiggle your toes. Come back into


===== PDF PAGE 94 ===== (images: 0: [])
68
BURN-IN
your body—you’re right here, right now.” Alicia gave the
woman her number, and she texted her thank you right away.
I cannot imagine the depth of pain felt by that woman
and am so glad that my wife was able to bring her a modicum
of comfort in a time of despair. I cannot fathom how I would
feel if Adrian were to pass. And I know that if I were bawling
my eyes out, rolling on the hospital ﬂoor, I’d appreciate it if
you, my reader, would stop by for a minute and say, “Hey, it’s
okay. Take a breath. Open your eyes. Come back to earth.”
And I pray that the next time you walk past anyone in
distress, you look up from your electronic device, wake up
from your dazed slumber and actually see another human
being that is not physically you but who really is you, who
really needs help, and you take a moment out of your
schedule to help them.
Billionaires—the ones who didn’t inherit their money—don’t
begin by saying “I want to put money in my pocket.” They
begin by identifying a problem and developing a novel solu‐
tion. That’s where the money comes from—not from greed or
desire but from service.
When you come to work from a place of service, where
you’re thinking about the wants and needs of someone other
than you, it sticks. Now, I’m not naïve: I don’t think Jeff Bezos
and Elon Musk are humble guys who just wanted to be of
service to their fellow man. The goal of Amazon isn’t not to
make money. But why do people like Amazon? Because it
works. Because when you need something fast and at the best
price, it’s there. The people who start companies like that can
open their eyes and minds and look at the big picture, and I
truly believe that kind of abundance mindset is available to
everyone.
A few years ago, I was taking a course on investing in real


===== PDF PAGE 95 ===== (images: 0: [])
Mindset Over Matter
69
estate geared toward doctors. Another student got up to share
her story. I’ll never forget it. She was working in a free clinic,
and for context, as a private practice physician in a high-
demand specialty, I earned four times her salary—even
though I’m not an owner of a company and I take a W2.
She shared that within one year, her real estate portfolio
became massive. There’s no other way to put it: she was
crushing it. She started with one home—a single-family home.
It was a safe bet, and then she got a taste for the game. Then
she got bigger and bigger until her portfolio dwarfed that of
many other doctors.
It would have been easy for me to look at her and think,
What does she know that I don’t? Is she smarter than me? Is she luckier
than me?
But that’s subsistence, not abundance. That’s a mindset
where you think everything is ﬁnite and that you’re always,
always in competition for every resource. The wrong kind of
thinking that one person having an awesome portfolio means
your portfolio is either going to be less awesome or more
awesome, when in reality, I believe there are enough opportu‐
nities for all of us to crush it. Instead of coveting what she
had, I chose to believe I could have those things, too—not by
taking them away from someone else but by doing the work
and earning my own version of that success.
With that abundance mindset, with claiming an identity of
wealth, with taking ownership of every outcome in my life, I
now command a real estate portfolio worth, at the time of this
writing, more than $22,000,000.
I didn’t get there by shaking out the couch cushions for
loose change and stashing it away in my piggy bank. I readily
admit, as you now know, that I’ve been very privileged and
that I consider myself lucky to earn the kind of money that I
earn. But I worked to get where I am, and as much as I feel
lucky, I also feel proud of myself. I feel proud that I can take
my salary and invest it and turn it into something even bigger


===== PDF PAGE 96 ===== (images: 0: [])
70
BURN-IN
for my family. And I have the humility to acknowledge that I
made some lucky bets that paid off handsomely.
Really, I could stop there. I could stop at believing that
positivity ﬂows and will ﬂow from the universe and into my life
and into the lives of people that I love. I don’t think anyone
would ﬁnd fault with that.
But I want to go further. An abundance mindset, for me,
means that what’s available to me is available to everyone. The
lessons I’ve learned about letting go of my ego and choosing
love and happiness are important lessons that have absolutely
changed my life for the better. So why should I want to keep
them to myself?
Once upon a time, I was standing in my own way. I was so
selﬁsh, and I didn't see the big picture. I was chasing things
that weren’t worth chasing. Now, I’m chasing meaning. I’m
chasing peace and positivity. I’m creating abundance, and I
know now that true abundance is taking what you have and
sharing it with other people. I know that in sharing my
journey to practice humility, I’m encouraging other people to
embrace humility in their own lives, and it’s there that I’ve
been blessed with a path forward.
You can make money ﬂipping couches. Seriously: you can go
out to the street on trash day, when people leave their
unwanted furniture at the curb, and you can pick up a couch
for free, clean it and reupholster it and then sell it on Facebook
Marketplace or Craigslist or to one of your friends. There are
so many hustles, whether you want to pick up lucrative side
work in medicine or start an Etsy shop selling embroidered art
your grandma makes. You might not make the kind of money
you’ll make investing in real estate, but you will make some.
The idea that you can make money doing pretty much
anything isn’t something a lot of people will tell you, largely


===== PDF PAGE 97 ===== (images: 0: [])
Mindset Over Matter
71
because there are a lot of people making money telling you
their way is the only way or the best way. I know a lot about
real estate investing, and I believe it’s a great option for
doctors who want to take their salaries and leverage them into
big money, so that’s why it’s the strategy I focus on in this book
(and if you’re wondering, “Patrick, when are we going to get
to the details?” they’re coming!).
You can lose your shirt in real estate, too. The cycle of
boom-and-bust repeats itself every so often. The market could
crash like it did in 2008. Or you could make the wrong choice
of property manager. Or you could have the bad luck to buy a
bunch of duplexes on a street that gets hit with a freak
tornado for which you did not purchase insurance.
This is where the difference between being rich and being
wealthy comes into play for me. Being rich is simple—it
means you have a lot of money. People quibble on exactly how
much money you need to have to be ofﬁcially rich, but if you
pull up your bank statements and the numbers you see match
your idea of rich, you’re rich. Wealth, on the other hand, is
more complicated.
I think of myself as wealthy not just because I have money
but also because I have a family. I have friends, I have
passions, I have dreams. I have, at the end of the day, a
mindset that helps me believe in my own wealth no matter
what. That you could take away all the zeroes in my bank
account, but you cannot take away my skill set and abilities, so
I would hustle and make it all back and more. That mindset
also means I feel a responsibility to be a good person—as
good a person as I can be. I feel a responsibility to treat people
well.
When I have a patient, whether they’re new or they’ve
seen me a hundred times, I have to generate rapport as soon
as I walk into the room. The surgery I specialize in involves
cutting people’s faces, which requires a not-small amount of
trust. The patient might be 90 years old—somebody’s mom,


===== PDF PAGE 98 ===== (images: 0: [])
72
BURN-IN
somebody’s grandmother. Maybe their daughter is in the
room, too, and I have to walk in there and ﬁnd a way to
communicate:
Hey, I'm going to take care of you. You can trust me. I'm
here to help you. I’m here to take all my training and all my
expertise—all the textbooks I’ve read, surgeries I’ve done,
patients I’ve served and my cumulative life experience—and
turn that knowledge into a concrete result that will make
your life better. The collective energy and ability of the
entire universe from my ancestors’ DNA passed down to me
is all in my hands now, and I'm going to channel that
wisdom and deliver it to you.
That’s no easy feat, as I’m sure many of you are aware.
People can read about me before they come in. They can
look at my biography on my website, check reviews or ask
around. But at the end of the day, these people don’t know
me. We’re in the room together, and while I’m the doctor,
we’re both just people.
You can have all the credentials in the world and still be a
jerk. As a physician, part of my job is to have a great bedside
manner, to instantly make my patients feel safe with me.
When you walk into a doctor's ofﬁce, you know you're going
to see a surgeon, but if you met me at Costco, you wouldn’t
necessarily think, “I deﬁnitely want to let this guy near my
face with a knife.” Not because I don’t seem perfectly nice
when I’m shopping at Costco, but because it’s not human
nature to trust strangers in that way.
A healthy mindset, to me, makes thinking of patient inter‐
actions like this as a gift. Instead of creating an adversarial
relationship where it’s my job to talk at them and it’s their job
to listen to me because I’m the expert, I can honor the fact
that they are putting all their trust and their hopes for healing


===== PDF PAGE 99 ===== (images: 0: [])
Mindset Over Matter
73
in my hands. That they, too, are trying to remember to put
their egos down.
If you took away all my material possessions today, even if I
went bankrupt, I would not be fazed. I know that I could get it
back. I would get it back quicker than how I built it up to
begin with. That’s something no one can take away—my
mindset. Your mindset is something no one will be able to take
away from you.
It’s the most valuable thing in the world that also happens
to be totally free.
I had some trouble with the refrigerator at my new house, so I called my
handyman to check it out. He discovered, after pulling it out from its spot
in the kitchen, that a rat had found its way into the walls or crevices of
the house and chewed at one of the hoses, because chewing at hoses is
what rats do and the refrigerator seemed like a good source of water, which
rats, like all living beings on earth, need to survive.
A lot of people who are focused on making as much money as possible
—no matter what, no matter where the money comes from—are like the
rat. They leave trails of destruction (or in the case of my house, a single
chewed-up water hose) in their wake, so singularly focused on money that
they’re blind to anyone or anything that stands in their way. The problem
with a rat chewing through the hose is that once air is in the line, water
stops running. The well runs dry, and now you need another place to
source your water. It would have made much more sense for the rat to ﬁnd
a way to get the water from a renewable source.
Rats are incredibly smart creatures, capable of accessing water in
even the driest of places, but they also have short lifespans. They get into
accidents, they get into ﬁghts, they get, in the case of the rat in my house,


===== PDF PAGE 100 ===== (images: 1: [113])
74
BURN-IN
captured in traps where they die. However much water they might have
gotten yesterday ceases to matter.
What if instead of being like the rat in search of water, we imagined
ourselves as people walking through the desert? Sure, it’s hot and sandy.
But in addition to water, there’s something else all living beings need: air.
And air, in the desert, is plentiful.
There’s no end to the air people can breathe in the desert, and it’s a
self-renewing resource. You can stand next to someone in the desert and
breathe all the air that you want, and guess what? It doesn’t suck the air
out from their breath. They can live and enjoy the warm breeze, too!
What if we thought of money as air? It’s all around us, just waiting for
us to take a deep breath in. There exists enough money in the world to feed
every mouth and provide clean drinking water to every human. It’s just
shifted into deep pockets or concentrated heavily in some areas more than
others.
So, if there’s more than enough money in the world, and money can be
created out of thin air, then it becomes a matter of creating and shifting it


===== PDF PAGE 101 ===== (images: 1: [115])
Mindset Over Matter
75
for you. And also remembering to contribute and give to others who are not
as blessed or lucky as yourself. The beauty of thinking this way is that
there’s enough air for everyone to have as much as they need. The same
goes for money.
Live in abundance—not just for yourself but for the people around
you. Then, see how positive energy spreads.


===== PDF PAGE 102 ===== (images: 0: [])
SEVEN
The Meaning of Wealth
I know plenty of people who make more money than me and
who are worth more money than me. I do well enough, but
I’m not Jeff Bezos.
More importantly, I don’t want to be Jeff Bezos. He went
to space, sure, but how much time does the guy get to spend
with his family? To just…take an afternoon off to hang out
because the weather is nice? I’m not here to judge, but I
wonder: how many happy marriages end in divorce?
I have money, but I also have love. I have a beautiful
family, and their love for me is a shining light, a beacon on
even the worst days, reminding me that the three of us are in
this together no matter what. Since Adrian was diagnosed,
I’ve also been lucky to have the love and support of my
extended family—his illness has, in many ways, brought us
even closer as we all direct our energy toward healing him.
What I have, in short, is wealth. I want you to be wealthy,
too. Part of wealth is ﬁnancial security and independence, but
that’s not the only pillar holding up the temple that is your
body and soul. In thinking about how best to describe what I
think wealth is and how I think you accumulate it, I came up
with an acronym.


===== PDF PAGE 103 ===== (images: 1: [118])
The Meaning of Wealth
77
Are you ready?
WEALTH.
Each of these letters represents a different aspect of
wealth, so without further ado, I’m going to break it down
for you.
W Stands for Wealth
It's more than the number of zeroes in your bank account.
Those zeroes aren’t just there to give you a thrill every time
your face unlocks your iPhone and you see your balances on
your handheld screen (I won’t judge you if it does give you a
thrill, though).
You are still you, no matter the number of zeroes in your
bank account.


===== PDF PAGE 104 ===== (images: 0: [])
78
BURN-IN
Seriously: when is the last time you thought about the
point of money? As kids, some of us probably imagined
growing up and driving Ferraris and living in beachside
mansions that also doubled as superhero headquarters. I
remember riding a jet ski for the ﬁrst time at ﬁve years old,
and I loved the feeling of the waves, the vibration of the
engine transferring to my little hands. That feeling stuck with
me for the next 30-ish years, and with it came the dream to
buy my very own jet ski.
I can afford it, but I still haven’t taken myself down to the
store to realize ﬁve-year-old Patrick’s dream. Once you hit a
certain age or certain life milestones, even being rich feels a lot
less sexy. I love trips to the Apple Store to shop for new
gadgets as much as the next guy, but you know what else I
love? Knowing that if my hot water heater craps out tomor‐
row, I can afford to buy a new one and have it installed
without having to think twice.
In a more urgent sense, I love the peace of mind that
comes with knowing that Adrian’s treatment isn’t going to
bankrupt our family and that my wife can stay home with him
and not have to worry about pinching pennies.
That jet ski dream was not simply limited to the ownership
of the vehicle, but it was a grander vision. Not only the jet ski
but also the freedom to enjoy it at my convenience. To ride the
waves of the ocean at a moment’s notice. The smell of the
salty ocean air, the sound of the seagulls ﬂying by, the warmth
of the sand beneath my toes. The beautiful home right on the
waterfront, where after a morning spent exploring the ocean, I
sit down to fresh ceviche and homemade tortilla chips with the
most delectable guacamole you’ve ever tasted, made by my
beautiful wife for our family.


===== PDF PAGE 105 ===== (images: 1: [121])
The Meaning of Wealth
79
Money gives you opportunity and lets you capitalize on
other things that magnify who you are. If you’re a generous
person, genuinely interested in the lives of other people, then
money gives you the chance to help in a material way. If
you’re a doctor working in private practice or in a large
hospital system, a massive increase in wealth might mean
cutting back on time spent on call for your patients so you can
spend more time at home with your wife and son who are so
excited when you walk through the door each night.
It might mean quitting your corporate medical job where
you’re treated like a commodity instead of a person and
working at a free clinic for low or no pay, because you’re ﬁnan‐
cially free and now are able to afford prioritizing your values
and ﬁlling not only your wallet but also your soul.
Money can ﬁx a lot of low-level problems so that you can
deal with high-level stuff. It's like Maslow's Hierarchy of


===== PDF PAGE 106 ===== (images: 0: [])
80
BURN-IN
Needs: when you’re hungry, it’s very challenging to repair a
mindset stuck in an unhealthy place.
If you don’t have a place to live, then you’re probably not
able to spend a lot of time thinking about ego. Money isn’t
going to get you to the top of the pyramid; you can’t buy your
way to inner peace. You can provide for your family, though.
You can give to causes close to your heart, and you can
outsource the things you hate so you can spend more time
doing the things you love.
You can also do these things from the deck of your new
beach house, soaking in the most vibrant sunset you’ve ever
had the privilege to witness.
E Stands for Elevation
This is you leveling up, not just ﬁnancially but in every aspect
of your life. You're elevating your state. You’re elevating your
mindset. Let’s say you’re climbing a mountain: you’ve made it
to the next stop, and someone throws you a rope you can use
to climb higher. Then, because elevation is also about
elevating other people, you throw that rope down to someone
who hasn’t made it as far as you have yet.
You hang out with a tribe of people who push you and
cheer you on—they want you to keep climbing that mountain
because they know you can do it and because they know how
sweet it will be when you’re all at the summit together.
Think about the people in your life—your family, your
friends, your coworkers. Do you want to climb a mountain
with them? Do they make you feel like you can do it?


===== PDF PAGE 107 ===== (images: 1: [124])
The Meaning of Wealth
81
As I mentioned earlier, there’s a concept that you’re the
average of the ﬁve people you spend the most time with. This
is true across socioeconomic status, race, weight, religion—you
name it, and it applies. If all your friends weigh 600 pounds,
then you’re probably okay being heavier than what would be a
healthy or ideal body weight for you. If your friends are all
poor, you may feel good about being slightly less poor.
It’s the same thing that we talked about in the chapter on


===== PDF PAGE 108 ===== (images: 0: [])
82
BURN-IN
mindset. Elevating your mindset happens ﬁrst within, and
then you turn it outward: who can you elevate? Who are you
looking to for guidance, for advice? Elevation means that
you’re being pushed outside your comfort zone. That you’re
stretching and growing. Brooke Castillo says, “Discomfort is
the currency of your dreams.” Learning to sit with discomfort
when you decide to step up in your life, learning to choose
progress over perfection and to turn your adversity into an
advantage—this is the ﬁrst thing you must do if you’re going
to ﬂy to the moon.
A Stands for Action + Accountability
The only reason that I get to do what I do is because I take
massive action. If you have a wealth and abundance of action
and activity, you'll get a lot done. It’s easy to not take action.
It’s easier than doing literally anything else, and it’s designed
that way! Taking action is a muscle you have to exercise. No
one wakes up one day and says, “You know what? Today I
think I’m going to change my whole life” and then actually
ﬁnds their whole life changed by bedtime.
Here’s a mini-challenge I want you to do:
What’s something you’ve been putting off? If you’re
saying to me, “Patrick, there’s nothing I’ve been putting off
because I never procrastinate!” I’ll know you’re lying.
Pick one thing from the list and do it. Just one! It doesn’t
have to be a big task—it can be tiny! Instead of washing the
whole sink full of dishes, just decide you’ll wash one dish and
call that a win.
Every night, set an alarm on your phone to wash one dish
at 8 pm after you’ve had dinner and before you’re too tired. If
you wash that one dish successfully, call it a win. Make it a
chain, like Jerry Seinfeld recommends for novice comedians.
Write a joke every day, mark the date with a red slash on the
calendar, then don’t break the streak. So for you, maybe that’s


===== PDF PAGE 109 ===== (images: 0: [])
The Meaning of Wealth
83
washing a dish every day. Or reading one page in a textbook
every day. Or writing 100 words for your book every day.
Then, you put the list away and come back to it the next day
when you’ll pick one more thing. Really feel it in your mind
and body. What does it feel like to do the thing? What does it
feel like to be done with it?
The beauty of this technique is that you give yourself
permission to start, but you can also count your wins. If you
wash just one dish, you can feel the win and it will help you
maintain a consistent habit even when you’re tired or not
feeling well. And if you complete the whole sink full of dishes,
that’s a win, too!
I learned this concept from a scene shared by the monk
Ajahn Brahm in his book Opening the Door of Your Heart. The
story, which I will paraphrase, follows a famous abbot building
a new hall in his monastery that unfortunately has to be
stopped mid-construction when heavy rains come. A visitor
sees the half-ﬁnished building days later and asks when it will
be ﬁnished. The old monk replies, “The hall is ﬁnished.” The
visitor is incredulous, his eyeballs practically dangling from
their sockets at this response. “What do you mean the hall is
ﬁnished?” the visitor exclaims. “There’s no roof! There’s
construction debris all over the place!” The old abbot gently
smiles and replies, “What’s done is ﬁnished,” and goes on his
merry way to meditate.
My take-home message is this: the work in your life will
never be finished. You will constantly have more to do. Dirty
dishes will always accumulate in the sink because you will
always have to eat. At some point, you’ve got to call it a day
and acknowledge the work that you have done. You stop,
smell the roses and enjoy some relaxation. You can’t work
forever. The lesson is that you take small, actionable steps
but also prevent yourself from burning out. Because without
rest, there can be neither sustainable nor massive action
taken.


===== PDF PAGE 110 ===== (images: 1: [128])
84
BURN-IN
On accountability, there’s a quote by Rumi, the 13th-
century Persian poet, that I want to share:
“Set your life on ﬁre. Seek those who fan your ﬂames.”
In other words, seek the people who add kindling to the
ﬁre inside of you. The person who has the most power to do
that? It’s you. It’s the version of you that has ﬂexed the “taking
action” muscle so many times that taking action isn’t some‐
thing you have to struggle with any longer.
You’ll get there. And until then, I’ll be right alongside you,
fanning your ﬂames.
Accountability, to me, means living a life ﬁlled with people
who aren’t afraid to hold a mirror up to your face when you
aren’t looking your best. Not in a nasty, mean or judgmental
way, criticizing you for your lack of sleep or your makeup but
in an open, constructive and honest way.
Maybe someone is losing his mind at the airport, taking it
out on the ﬂight attendants, and you’re ready to punch him in
the face—but your wife reminds you, “Remember, we don’t
know what he’s going through. He could be stressed about


===== PDF PAGE 111 ===== (images: 0: [])
The Meaning of Wealth
85
catching a ﬂight to see a sick parent or his dying child. Let’s
extend him some grace in this moment.”
Or you’re being a jerk to your staff, and your colleague
simply tells you, “Hey, maybe don’t do that.” When I’m trying
to solve a problem the wrong way, or ignoring a problem that
needs my attention, my life coach is there. I can call him to
work on any problem.
If I have a challenge with my real estate investments, my
high-level peer group will get real with me: “Dude, this is a
dumpster ﬁre if you don't ﬁll that vacancy." It lights a ﬁre
under my ass, which serves two purposes: ﬁrst, it helps me take
care of my own side of the street. Second, it gives me the
motivation to help my friends when they’re the ones who have
blind spots and need an authentic look in the mirror.
L Stands for Love
This pillar of wealth is very straightforward. You need love in
your life. Whatever that means to you! If you’re married,
love your partner and let them love you in return. Learn to
love them in the way that they receive it best and ask them
to love you in the way you receive it best. Fill each other’s
love tanks, a term that comes from The Five Love Languages by
Gary Chapman. If you’re single, then love your friends and
family and allow them to love you in return. Love, like
action, is a muscle: the more you practice, the stronger it
becomes.
Loving someone means being vulnerable, and I under‐
stand how scary that is. Without the sparks of love, though,
your ﬁre is going to burn out. I’m also not saying it’s always
easy! Loving Adrian, for example, is the easiest thing in the
world. In addition to being my son, he’s also an incredibly
cute kid. And I know everyone thinks their kid is the cutest,
but objectively my kid is the cutest, and I would challenge
anyone to look into his shining eyes or hear his infectious


===== PDF PAGE 112 ===== (images: 0: [])
86
BURN-IN
laugh and not feel the love energy he radiates from his beau‐
tiful soul.
Other relationships require a little more effort. More time,
more compromise, more of everything that can fall by the
wayside when you’re in a competitive and cutthroat residency
program and your only goal is to come out ahead of your
cohort, for example.
It can feel even harder to love someone or something that
is hard to love. Compassion comes from cultivating this
though. Maybe you are having a tough time loving someone
who has wronged you. Someone who is a stranger to you.
Someone whose values and actions don’t align with yours. But
for your own joy and peace, you will ﬁnd that you must learn
to love them anyway.
You know who you really have to love, though?
Yourself.
You can dismiss that as woo-woo nonsense all you want,
but might I remind you that none other than the great RuPaul
“Mama Ru” Charles agrees! Every time this iconic drag queen
superstar legend reminds us of the essential truth: “If you
can’t love yourself, how in the hell are you going to love some‐
body else? Can I get an amen up in hurrr okurrrr?!?!” we say,
“Yaaas queen! Slay all day!” And by “we,” I mean my wife
and I because we’ve never missed an episode of Drag Race. My
wife Alicia loves to watch the show, and I love my wife Alicia;
therefore, I watch shows that she watches, and she, in turn, lets
me drag her to ride roller coasters and do things that I enjoy
more than she does.
Part of loving yourself, to me, is embracing the fact that
you deserve every good thing you want. That every person in
your life, every ad and every message that told you that you’re
not worthy or good enough was wrong. As we grow up from
childhood, we often shift from living in a constant state of joy
and wonder to one of victimhood. This happens through the
negative interactions we experience in life, from bullying and


===== PDF PAGE 113 ===== (images: 0: [])
The Meaning of Wealth
87
indoctrination into broken school systems to advertising that
tells us that we’re nothing without a Rolex or Porsche (which is
criminal, because we all know that when the excitement fades
from that new shiny object we bought, we end up back where
we were to begin with).
There’s nothing wrong with choosing to wear makeup or
getting Botox or liposuction or a face- lift. The problem arises
when we believe that these things will solve all the unrelated
problems in our lives. Anyone who works in plastic surgery or
dermatology has seen the kind of patient who comes in think‐
ing, “This breast augmentation (or laser or ﬁller injection) is
going to be the thing that ﬁnally makes me happy.” They’re
looking for it to stop a divorce or gain a promotion. While
they may have their cheeks fuller with beautiful volume
restoration or more radiant skin after laser energy, they remain
unhappy. Because regardless of any external change, their
internal state is the same.
You deserve to live a life ﬁlled with ﬁnancial security and
action with people who hold you accountable and who love
you just for being you, regardless of what you look like or
what you do. Who remind you that you are worthy of being
loved simply because you exist.
If you can’t believe that, then you will never be wealthy.
T Stands for Time
What good is having a million or a billion dollars if your time
isn’t your own?
Time, to me, is freedom. You have structure in your day, in
your quarter, in your year, in your next ﬁve years, in your next
10 years. How many people can’t tell you where they’ll be at 3
pm next Wednesday? I know exactly where I’ll be at 3 pm
next Wednesday because I treat my schedule with respect.
What would my life look like if I didn’t treat my schedule
with respect?


===== PDF PAGE 114 ===== (images: 0: [])
88
BURN-IN
I’m a doctor in private practice, which means if I don’t
work, my staff doesn’t work. How do you think it would go
over if I said one day, “You know what? I think I’m going to
the Bahamas for six weeks, and I’m going to leave tomorrow!”
But if in January of the same year, I decide that I want to
spend November in the Bahamas, then I can plan ahead, and
everyone knows. I can show the people who work for me and
myself that I value my own time and that I respect theirs.
Emergencies happen, and part of true time freedom is
building a life that allows you to do what you need to do when
you need to do it. When Adrian was first diagnosed with cancer,
I took three unscheduled weeks off, which no one begrudged me
because, again, my toddler son had cancer. To me, time freedom
is the luxury to exit when you need to. Even though I have a lot
of expenses, I took those three weeks off when my son needed
me. I took those three weeks off because my life is one where my
time, unlike so many other things, is something I can control.
Here’s another thing time freedom allows me to say:
Spending time with me is a luxury.
I have cultivated a patient population that is grateful to see
me because I'm booked out for eight months. If you are a new
patient and it is currently November 2021, then the earliest
you will see me is in July 2022. It's a luxury that a patient can
come to my ofﬁce and see me.
The people who yell at my staff, who curse or leave me a
one-star review because they asked for an appointment and
were upset about the wait time or because they got a parking
ticket when they were in my waiting room, these are the
people who have shown me that they don’t see my time as
valuable, meaning they don’t see me as valuable.
These are the same people who will scream at a ﬂight
attendant or lose their mind at a custodian but then fake nice‐
ness to the CEO of the same company. These are the people
who have no respect for others and treat others unequally. You


===== PDF PAGE 115 ===== (images: 0: [])
The Meaning of Wealth
89
know what happens on an airplane if you lose your mind over
a delay and you scream and threaten a ﬂight attendant?
You’re put on a list, and you’re never ﬂying again. That is a
prime example of a healthy boundary.
Because I have time freedom, I can say to this type of
ungrateful person who shows up in my ofﬁce, “Look, you
don't have to see me. I'm not hurting for patients. I'm not
hurting for business. You can see somebody else. It is not
worth my time nor anyone else’s here to see you. If you are
rude to my front ofﬁce staff on the phone, my nurses, my
physician assistants or the management team, then you are
rude to me, and I will not tolerate that kind of poor attitude
and behavior.”
Time freedom is about wanting to be exactly where you
are and being exactly where you want to be. It’s about looking
at situations that don’t serve you or bring you joy and then
leaving those situations. It’s about creating healthy boundaries in
all areas of your life so that those who you allow into your
world understand that it’s a privilege. It’s a privilege in the
same way that ﬂying through the air at 500 miles per hour to
get to your destination in hours instead of driving for days is a
privilege.
It’s about loving yourself enough to know that your time
matters and is limited on this earth because all those things are
connected. It’s about feeling conﬁdent enough to act like your
time matters. You might have 100 years, or you might only
have until tomorrow. Only God knows. So live in gratitude,
service and joy, the way you were meant to live.
H Stands for Health
I don’t know exactly what happens to our souls when we die. I
do know that the soul is inﬁnite—that long after you’re gone
from this earth, it enters whatever space that souls go, whether


===== PDF PAGE 116 ===== (images: 0: [])
90
BURN-IN
that’s heaven, the universe itself, another plane of existence or
something I haven’t considered yet.
I do know for sure that everybody dies. Your body, at the
end of the day, is a meat bag held up by a bunch of sticks. It’s
not going to last forever—it’s not designed to last forever, which
means you’d better take care of it while you can.
You may be an inﬁnite soul, but your body is a temporary
physical form.
It is challenging to explain the feeling of inﬁnity that is
your soul. Medicine, logic, the rational mind and Western
science cannot explain it all. Your consciousness or soul or
whatever you want to call it does not up and disappear when
your physical form perishes. Your rational mind and ego will
tell you it’s BS when patients come back and talk about seeing
the white light before they’re shocked back into the world of
the living. There’s no scientiﬁc method or theory to explain
something that we don’t have the capacity to understand
right now.
When patients are pseudo-dead, they’re free from the
body, which has physical pains. As a human being, you still
have to eat, drink, pee and poop. Your bones hurt as you age
—my patients tell me every day that I shouldn’t get old. I
jokingly reply that it beats the alternative, but now that I
think about it, I will stop saying that. There’s no under‐
standing the feeling of infinitely being a part of the universe
unless you’ve experienced it yourself—by meditating your
way there or through whatever your path was to that under‐
standing.
Death is something not to be feared. I know when I die, if
I can choose to, I want to let go. I don’t want anyone to guilt
me into hanging out on Earth for another hour so they can see
me intubated and sedated, unable to leave the bed to use the
bathroom, let alone wipe my behind. Death, in my mind, is
like taking off a tight surgical glove after a long case. It’s the
ahhhhhh of Bodhisattva in the heart sutra. It’s the relief of the


===== PDF PAGE 117 ===== (images: 0: [])
The Meaning of Wealth
91
inﬁnite soul escaping the limitations of the human physical
form and going beyond.
Health is your ﬁrst wealth, and you only miss it when it's
gone—when you’re too tired to play with your kid on a hot
summer day or your shoulders scream out in pain because you
spend most of your waking hours hunched over a computer.
Think about something small, like your taste buds: you can
put fried chicken on them, or champagne, or a tomato fresh
from your own garden. You taste those things and feel joy, but
when was the last time you gave thanks for your taste buds for
getting you there? If you burn those taste buds by taking a
gulp of hot coffee, you won’t be able to taste anything as
intensely until they’re healed.
I have another question for you: is there a limit to how
much you can see in your mind?
I don’t think there is. If you close your eyes and concen‐
trate, you can see anything you want, whether it’s a memory
or a dream or something you only imagine in this very
moment. You can place your awareness right up against the
smallest, least perceptible sound in a room. You can put your
awareness behind you, in front of you, to the left or to the
right of you. You can bring your awareness inside of you to a
point of pain in your body. To the feeling of the pressure of
your feet touching the ﬂoor. To the heartbeat pulsing steadily
in your chest. To the tingling of your ﬁngertips.
Your body, though, is not inﬁnite. Your body is a real phys‐
ical form, and it carries real physical pains. The body decays
until one day, you can no longer see things in your mind
because the bag of meat holding it up doesn’t work anymore.
It’s not a car where you can swap out the engine, where you
have a seven-year warranty on the powertrain. When you
blow a tire on your car, you can just swap it out for a new one.
In a human body, when you amputate your leg, you can’t just
grow a new one.
I still have problems with my health, and I'm a doctor.


===== PDF PAGE 118 ===== (images: 0: [])
92
BURN-IN
Again, I’m not here to judge you—but be honest with your‐
self. How many doctors are out of shape, smoking, drinking
too much coffee or alcohol, using drugs as a coping mecha‐
nism and not getting enough sleep? How many doctors,
instead of taking the Hippocratic Oath, take the hypocritical
oath? They’re doing the things they tell their patients not to
do. And why? Because they don’t own their time and don’t
know how to manage in any other way. But I promise you,
there is no amount of fried chicken, alcohol or cigarettes to ﬁll
that void inside of you.
The external cannot ﬁll the internal. Only the internal
can. When you extend love, grace and compassion to yourself,
then this dark hole begins to ﬁll with light and take you back
to a place of gratitude and joy.
When my wife was pregnant, I gained sympathy weight. If
she had a middle-of-the-night craving for Taco Bell, who was I
to refuse her? And if I was cruising through the drive-thru,
shouldn’t I just go ahead and grab a taco or two for myself so
that we could enjoy our midnight snacks together? It felt good
to ﬁll the black hole of stress and lack of sleep inside of me
with a chalupa wrapped in a quesadilla with an extra-large
soda and miniature churros for dessert. The problem is that
ﬁlling the hole in this way is temporary, and pleasure will give
way to hunger again.
After Adrian was born, I was the heaviest I’d ever been. In
January of 2020, I looked in the mirror and I didn’t see
myself. I saw a guy who wasn’t taking care of himself, who
wasn’t expressing gratitude for his meat suit, who was taking it
for granted instead.
I felt the very real limitations of my physical form. The
discomfort of not ﬁtting into jeans and other clothing that
previously ﬁt well. The icky feeling of a regular car seat belt
hugging me tighter than before. The shame of having to undo
a belt notch or the entire belt because I didn’t maintain the


===== PDF PAGE 119 ===== (images: 0: [])
The Meaning of Wealth
93
self-discipline to stop eating when I was past the point of
being full.
When I held up the mirror to myself, I started to make
changes. I’ve lost weight, but that doesn’t mean I’m done.
Because what I learned from gaining and losing that weight is
that taking care of your body is also taking care of your mindset.
If you’re not taking care of your body—if you’re drunk all
the time, or you eat fast food for dinner every night, or the
most exercise you get is walking from the car to the door of
your ofﬁce—you’re not elevating yourself. You can't smoke
and drink and eat fried chicken and expect to be feeling,
looking and acting your best. Because there's a reason you
smoke, eat fried chicken and drink. If you don't address those
things, you will just continue to try to ﬁll the void. But trying
to ﬁll that void with stuff from the outside world? It’s impossi‐
ble. You have to ﬁll it from within using light from your ﬁre.
I’m not here to body-shame you or tell you what to eat or
not eat. I’m here to say there’s a way for you to live your best
life, whatever that looks like for you. Health isn’t something
only young people have, either. That’s a fact we should all be
excited about! Age should not be a limitation.
At Berkeley, I taught a chemistry lab as a sophomore—to
freshmen! I created this elaborate backstory, saying I was
doing research in a bio lab (which I was). I didn’t tell them I
was an undergraduate researcher because I didn’t want them
to take me less seriously.
As a doctor, I’ve had new patients come into the room and
say, “Holy moly, doc—are you even old enough to graduate
high school?”
Even my repeat patients tell me that when they refer their
friends, they say, “You should see Dr. Tran and ignore the fact
that he looks like he's 12, because he's really good.”
There are also old geezers I roll with who would pose a
serious challenge to me in a ﬁght. The best ﬁghter I knew


===== PDF PAGE 120 ===== (images: 0: [])
94
BURN-IN
when I was training in martial arts was 55 and kicking ass and
moving faster than everyone (except me, of course). He was a
Navy SEAL, and he was obviously committed to staying in
shape long after he’d retired.
I was recently at my friend’s pool party where the host,
Darren McMahon, at age 55, did a crazy ﬂip over our friend.
Age really is just a number. You can treat your body like a
temple wherever you are, whenever you’re ready.
I bought a juicer recently, which I love, but I am not ﬁlling
the void with juice. In fact, sometimes my mind craves fried
chicken, and that’s what I feed it. What I am trying to ﬁll the
void with, though, is WEALTH. When you’re nurturing every
part of your wealth, it grows. It grows and it burns, and
someday I truly believe you’ll climb so high you won’t be able
to feel the void at all anymore—you’ll be so busy marveling at
how amazing it is to be among the stars.
There’s something else I want to say about wealth, illustrated
by a story about my recent real estate purchase.
The house I bought had a shower stall in one of the bath‐
rooms. The ﬂoor was patched, and I was told by a couple of
handymen that it would be expensive to change—more
trouble than it would be worth. They advised me to wait until
one of the patches failed or there was an actual problem to be
dealt with.
I decided that I would rather tear out the shower and
make it beautiful because I could afford to but also because I
noticed a few other patch jobs I wanted to clean up.
The shower stall came out—and guess what was behind it
and the other patch jobs? Black mold growing due to the
moisture.
Thank goodness I had decided to follow my gut and tear
the shower out. The handymen are working, as I type, on


===== PDF PAGE 121 ===== (images: 0: [])
The Meaning of Wealth
95
installing a brand-new beautiful shower after tearing out the
moldy insulation and applying bleach to everything. They also
put concrete over the spaces where the mold had been grow‐
ing, and I now feel a sense of relief about having my son, who
is often in and out of the hospital and has a dangerously weak‐
ened immune system, breathe the air in our home.
There are always two ways to do something. You can do it
the easy way and end up with black mold in your shower, or
you can do it the right way (which is sometimes the hard way)
and invest time, money and energy into building a bathroom
with clean air. Wealth isn’t something you can hack. If your
health is failing or you’re feeling lonely, you can’t just slap a
patch over those parts of your life and hope for the best.
Take the time to do it right. Take the time to do everything
right.
That’s when you’ll truly be wealthy.
Emotions are like waves. They will rise, grow quite large and even crash
against the shore, but then they subside and return to the vast ocean. To be
on the shore can be a violent experience.
I remember as a child being knocked down by a wave in this unsafe
space on the beach. It was a horrible cycle that started with a wave
smacking me down, slapping my cheek against shells, rock and sand.
Then, I was dragged toward the ocean with sandy, salty water ﬁlling
every crevice of my body, only to be attacked again by another wave.
Emotions can hit hard like this, feeling relentless and never-ending.
But you are not your emotions. You are not the wave. And you don’t
have to stand at the tide line, getting pummeled by wave after wave. You
can place your awareness wherever you choose! You, as loving awareness,
can select a safe location. You can be on the sand, chilling on a hammock
between palm trees, watching the emotions come and go as waves do. You
can stand safely behind the waterline, arms akimbo, chest puffed out as
you watch the sunset.


===== PDF PAGE 122 ===== (images: 0: [])
96
BURN-IN
Alternatively, you can pass the initial violence of the wave and swim
through, beyond the shore. If you take your loving awareness and go
further into the ocean, then you can see the waves as they come on.
Here, the waves won’t crash you against the shore; instead, you can
choose to jump with them or dive under them. You select a location of ease
and ﬂow—a beautiful state where you’re having fun and weaving and
bobbing with the waves for the sport of it. You’re secure, and you maintain
this feeling of comfort regardless of your external circumstances. The
world may appear to rock around you, but you’re just having a blast,
enjoying the ride while avoiding danger.
You recognize that any emotion that comes your way is a wave—
whether it's a surge of pleasure or a surge of pain. They all follow the
same arc: they build initially, reach a peak and then subside. 
This is why lottery winners will initially be happier than usual when
they win but one year out, their happiness levels return to where they were
before they won. It’s why amputees are initially sadder than usual when
they lose the limb, but one year later, they are at the same pre-amputation
level of happiness.
The more that we feed into an emotion, the higher the wave can build.
So anger, when fed, will grow larger and larger until it becomes a
tsunami.
The more we resist the emotion, the longer it persists. So physical pain
in your body, when you ﬁght it and shout "Go away, pain!” only stays
longer. As if the wave hits a peak and then plateaus. What you resist,
persists.
This is because so much of pain comes from your own mind and ego.
You create your own problems by resisting the way that things truly exist.
When you love it all, just as it is right now, then there is no reason to have
pain, worry, anxiety or discomfort. 
So, if we can take a moment to breathe and let go of our illusions,
our false sense of control and how we think things should be and
instead love everyone and everything just as it is, then we can connect to
our true nature—which is Love, Bliss, Light, Energy, God or whatever
you want to call it.


===== PDF PAGE 123 ===== (images: 1: [142])
The Meaning of Wealth
97
Wealth isn’t just money—it’s everything you put out into the world
and everything the world gives back to you. It is loving what you have,
rather than hating what you don’t. Wealth is peace of mind—it is
carrying a feeling of safety and love in your heart that is available to you
at any time, in any place.


===== PDF PAGE 124 ===== (images: 0: [])
EIGHT
We’re All in This Together
Someone once told me that if your biggest problems are your
personal problems, you need to get bigger problems.
Now, my personal problems at the moment are pretty big:
I’m a doctor working during a global pandemic, and I have a
huge real estate portfolio that I have to constantly stay on top
of. I am a serial entrepreneur with multiple companies and
employees. I am writing a trilogy of books, I run a coaching
program, I am producing an album with my younger brother
the musician, and I have a father who was diagnosed with a
genetic heart problem that could affect me and my son as well.
I have an uncle who was recently diagnosed with metastatic
lung cancer, and as you already know, my two-year-old son is
battling cancer.
But I also have so much. I have a loving family, a secure
income, a job that lets me feel good about my contributions to
society. I also have a hard-won outlook on life, one that pushes
me to consider the role of my own ego in how I’m feeling.
Once you’ve learned to put your ego down and live in an
abundance mindset, a simple truth reveals itself: we’re all the
same.


===== PDF PAGE 125 ===== (images: 0: [])
We’re All in This Together
99
I don’t mean this in a corny “let us put aside our differ‐
ences and see that on the inside we have so much in common
with our fellow man” after-school special kind of way. I mean
it literally: you, me, your family, my family, the trees that made
the paper you’re reading this book on. We’re all connected,
and that’s why my problems are your problems and your prob‐
lems are my problems. If people are starving, that’s my prob‐
lem. That’s everyone’s problem. Again, this might sound like lip
service, but I really do believe we need to reframe our mindset
to remember that there is a world outside our own egos and
that we are part of that world.
That also helps me see that most of my problems are just
problems of communication. If I’m having an argument with
my wife, there’s a 90 percent chance it’s because of a miscom‐
munication. If I miss a phone call with my team and have to
reschedule but I’m also on my way into surgery, that’s a
problem of communication. Part of doing this work is
opening yourself up to communication with the people in
your life but also with yourself. Only then can I start to tackle
the other 10 percent.
It’s easy to watch the news at night and get overwhelmed.
There is so much suffering and destruction in the world that
tuning it out and saying, “That sucks but I have my own stuff
to worry about” becomes the easiest option for most people.
And look, I am not saying that I want everyone reading
this book to wake up tomorrow, sell all of their material
possessions and dedicate their lives to bringing peace and
clean water to the war-torn nations of the world (though of
course if you are moved to do that, I’m proud of you!).
What I want you to see is that we’re all connected. How
much time do we spend trying to not connect with each other?
Using screens, our cars, houses and our work as buffers? It’s
easy for my wife and I to watch Netﬂix together, and we both
enjoy it. Netﬂix plays an important role in the wind-down


===== PDF PAGE 126 ===== (images: 0: [])
100
BURN-IN
portion of our evenings, but if that’s the only thing we were
doing together, we wouldn’t be connected. Connections are
living entities that need food, water and nourishment. You
have to try.
We must recognize that beyond the boundaries of our
immediate families, our best friends or our closest coworkers,
we’re still connected to everything and everyone else.
When is the last time you went outside for the express
purpose of just being there? Just marveling at this natural
wonderland we call a home planet and our role in it? In the
early 20th century, an Idaho senator named Frank Church
was trying to defend an area of back-country wilderness in his
home state. He stood on the Senate ﬂoor and made these
remarks:
"The great purpose is to set aside a reasonable part of the
vanishing wilderness to make certain that generations of
Americans yet unborn will know what it is to experience life
on undeveloped, unoccupied land in the same form and
character as the Creator fashioned it. It is a great spiritual
experience. I never knew a man who took a bed roll onto an
Idaho mountainside and slept there under a star-studded
summer sky who felt self-important that next morning. And
unless we preserve some opportunity for future generations
to have the same experience, we shall have dishonored our
trust."


===== PDF PAGE 127 ===== (images: 1: [147])
We’re All in This Together
101
While I don’t know what religion Frank Church practiced,
I’m guessing it was different from mine, but that quote
resonates with me because being in nature is a spiritual experi‐
ence. Not only are you the same as other people, but you're
the same as the trees and the water and the rocks and the
stars.
It is the same DNA running through you that is read by
the RNA polymerases that eventually are translated into
proteins in the tree’s cells, too. Our bodies are speaking the
same language with the same alphabet; it's just being
expressed differently. You have the same fundamental code


===== PDF PAGE 128 ===== (images: 1: [149])
102
BURN-IN
that makes up your life. The trees create oxygen for you. They
convert energy from the sun, and they have life as well. All
these beings are living, and all these beings are one with each
other, each playing its own small part in the magic of life on
earth.


===== PDF PAGE 129 ===== (images: 0: [])
We’re All in This Together
103
It’s easy to feel the love of trees and to feel love for trees.
They’re beautiful, and they bring us shade, cool the air and
sometimes bear delicious fruit we can snack on. My son
Adrian loves trees. He runs up to them, gives them a hug and
talks to them when we go for walks outside as a family. He
shouts “Hello?” to the tree and then pauses and listens. It’s
very easy to feel love for the trees when witnessing this
precious scene.
But what about loving someone you hate? Or something
you hate? Because those things and those people are part of
this world, too, and at some point, you’re going to have to
decide if you want to keep perpetuating that hate or if you
want to release it so that it’s no longer a burden you’re forced
to carry with you.
When I was in medical school, one of my classmates was
murdered.
He was not a close friend, but I knew him, and he wore
the same backpack I had. That made me think of us in some
small way as brothers—him and I, the backpack twins. His
name was Paul DeWolf, and he lived in a medical fraternity.
There were around 20 medical students living there, and one
day, three men in their 20s broke into the house armed with a
gun and robbed the place. They took an Xbox, which was
maybe worth $200 in cash, and somehow in the middle of the
robbery, Paul woke up and struggled with them. Paul was shot,
and he died.
For what? For $200? For an Xbox? The people who did
this ended a beautiful life. Paul had an infectious laugh, a
beautiful soul and planned on using his medical education to
serve our country in the military. All of this was snuffed out.
For nothing.
We all cried at Paul’s funeral. During the time of the trial,
I saw a picture in the newspaper of one of the defendants—
probably younger than I was at the time—laughing. Laughing.


===== PDF PAGE 130 ===== (images: 0: [])
104
BURN-IN
I was ﬁlled with rage toward this guy. “You ended my
classmate's life for $200? What the hell is wrong with you?!” I
thought.
What the hell was wrong with him? Meaning, what had
gone wrong in this person’s life? What brought him not just to
Paul’s fraternity house that night but to a place where he felt
like robbing people with a gun wasn’t just okay but was some‐
thing he was entitled to do? Something he had to do?
I don’t absolve this guy of what he did to Paul. He took
something precious that wasn’t his to take, and he’ll never be
able to give it back. But my hating him, my refusal to see him
as a person with a life that led him to this dark moment, isn’t
going to bring Paul back, either. It’s going to fester within me
and make me less compassionate and less generous with my
goodwill, all of which will hurt me.
I have to ﬁnd, in my heart, love for Paul’s killer. That’s not
easy. It goes against the ego. It goes against everything we’ve
been taught about good and bad, right and wrong, reward
and punishment. Why does Paul’s killer deserve my love?
Because hate is a heavy thing to carry, and while releasing
it is sometimes the hardest thing you’ll ever have to do, once
it’s gone, you don’t miss it. Hating him isn’t going to bring
Paul back. It crowds out the spaces where Paul should be.
While we were not best friends, I knew Paul well enough to
know that he wouldn’t want that.
His family told me as I talked to them about this project
that Paul’s desire to become a doctor stemmed from a time
when his older brother was hospitalized with a serious illness.
Paul, just 10, found purpose in “playing doctor,” and dreamed
of growing up to help people like his brother get well.
Nothing will bring Paul back. Nothing will take away the
hurt. You can decide in your soul to let go and forgive, and
that's what takes it away.
Paul’s family set up a memorial scholarship in his name.
I’ve donated, and it means that every year someone will get to


===== PDF PAGE 131 ===== (images: 0: [])
We’re All in This Together
105
come to our amazing medical school and worry a little less
about money—because of Paul. Paul’s sister has two children,
and that boy and that girl will grow up learning about Paul.
Not just the way his life ended but all the things that made
him who he was—what he loved, what foods he hated, what
funny things he said.
When I think of Paul, I think of his face and his family, of
the memorial I went to where his sister played the piano
combining two pieces of music that were unrelated by genre:
“River Flows in You” and the theme from The Ofﬁce that
somehow sounded beautiful together. I think of Paul’s soul as
a living thing that I can feel in this moment.
Every time I hear that Yiruma piano piece on Spotify or
watch The Ofﬁce, and I’m open and vulnerable with my ears
and heart, the music brings me back to that moment at Paul’s
memorial. Like I said: Paul and I weren’t best friends, but he
made an impact on me. In talking about him now, I feel close
to him. I feel like we are building a friendship that we didn’t
have time to build in life, and I know that none of this would
be possible if I was still consumed with hate for Paul’s killers.
I spoke to Thom DeWolf, Paul’s father, as I was writing
this book to ensure that I shared his story accurately and in a
way that honors him and his memory. I am grateful for his
feedback on this chapter and book, and I will let him speak for
himself:
“Part of your theme in this section deals with anger and
forgiveness. I struggled with this for months after Paul was
murdered. It was intensiﬁed when the perpetrators were
caught, and as you mentioned, their behavior in court. But
that anger was internalized, and it was only damaging me. I
knew that as a follower of God, I needed to forgive them for a
number of reasons. I did not want to remain bitter all my life;
I wanted to get better. I could not allow those murderers to
continue to sap me of my happiness and joy in life. 
In the class that my wife and I facilitate for those who have


===== PDF PAGE 132 ===== (images: 0: [])
106
BURN-IN
lost loved ones, I discovered there are different aspects of
forgiveness. Once I realized that forgiveness does not condone
an action, that consequences are still in place and responsible
parties are still held accountable, I could begin to forgive.
At the trials, my wife and I soon realized that there was
more than one life taken July 24, 2013. Sitting with the fami‐
lies of these individuals, we realized their sons would be taken
from them as well. They were suffering a loss as well. We had
compassion for them. The healing in our lives had begun,
even before the sentencing. The fact that Paul is no longer
with us is still a gut-wrenching reality. All the hopes and
dreams we had will never be realized.
Paul’s death pushed us even further into a “why is this
happening to us” mentality. In the middle of those events,
there was no good answer. There is still not an adequate
answer for Paul having to lose his life in such a manner. 
So again, we had to look for the positives instead of the
negatives, or we would ﬁnd ourselves again in the pit of bitter‐
ness that eats away at the soul. We had to let go of the hate in
our heart, as you mentioned, and ﬁnd a way to channel our
energy. We found that in helping others who have suffered the
loss of a loved one. Is this the path I thought we would be
going down? Not at all. But what a blessing as we have been
able to come alongside others who have suffered the loss of a
dear loved one and been able to help them walk through their
deep valley.”
I have no words to convey the utter gratitude I have for
Paul and his family for touching my life in the way that they
have.
I have another mini-challenge for you.
Is there hate in your heart you can let go of? We don’t


===== PDF PAGE 133 ===== (images: 0: [])
We’re All in This Together
107
even have to start with hate—we can start with annoyance or
low-level dislike. Is there someone in your life—a coworker, a
relative, someone you interact with once a week—who takes
up space in your head or heart and ﬁlls that space with nega‐
tive energy?
What if you just…didn’t? What if you took that hate and
turned it into love that you radiated back out into the world?
If you allowed yourself to think about that person’s life and
that person’s choices and acknowledged that if you were them,
you’d probably act the same way and say the same things?
I guarantee you’ll get more out of love than hate, because
hate will burn you out—it will corrode your insides like a leaky
faucet does to your kitchen sink. Love is a ﬂame that will keep
you warm, energized and strong enough to move through the
world as a person who understands how fundamentally
connected we all are.
The more love you’re willing to give, the more love you’re
going to get back. When you start to become a person who
sees humans, animals, trees and stars as connected, you open
yourself up to receiving their love in return.
The person I know with the brightest, clearest love energy
is my son Adrian. We take him to Costco and sit him in the
little seat for kids at the top of the shopping cart, and he just
beams at people. And yes, I know, I have already talked a lot
about Costco in this book, but I’m a 32-year-old dad who lives
in a house in the suburbs. I spend a lot of time at Costco.
Strangers look at Adrian and are almost always moved to
smile and wave because his delight at being out and about
with his mom and dad is contagious. Sometimes people look
twice and notice the fact that his hair is gone or that he has a
feeding tube attached to his nose. Then they go about their


===== PDF PAGE 134 ===== (images: 0: [])
108
BURN-IN
days, thinking about the sweet little boy from Costco and
hoping that whatever he’s going through, he’s strong enough
to beat it. That’s love energy, and it comes back to Adrian and
our family.
My staff have all been very kind and supportive during
Adrian's cancer diagnosis.
They are generous and give gifts even though they
don't have the same means that I am fortunate to have. One
gift, I believe, is the greatest one, and it's not material. My
histotechnician is named Linda. Her father passed away last
year, and it was very challenging for her. She experienced
emotional trauma from the loss and held on tightly to the past
when he was still alive. I guess you could say that she hadn't
really dealt with the pain or processed all her feelings.
Then, one morning at work, she told me that she had a
dream the night before. In her sleep, she saw her father at our
clinic, her workplace. She knew that her father had passed
away and wasn't sure if it was real, so she went to ﬁnd a
colleague to introduce him to. She found the dream version of
me and brought me to her father, who gave me a warm smile,
shook my hand, looked me in the eye and told me, "Your boy's
going to be okay."
In that moment, she felt an overwhelming sense of peace
and calm, and when she woke up, she had ﬁnally made peace
with her father's passing.
Was it literally the spirit of her father in this dream? Some
people might think so. Some people may say he came from
the afterlife, or some might think he was reincarnated. Some
people might think the whole thing is nonsense and chalk it up
to her eating too much cheese before going to bed. I think
these are all just ego and mental constructs, trying to take
something that doesn’t have one solid explanation and give it a
structure our waking minds can understand.
What I do know for certain is that this appearance of
Linda’s father in her dream and in my life means that the


===== PDF PAGE 135 ===== (images: 0: [])
We’re All in This Together
109
universe is radiating love energy in my son’s direction. He’s
connected to the universe, and the universe is connected
to him.
Once we accept that we’re all the same, that we’re all
bound together, and we lean into that, I think we also start to
see these moments happen in real life.
Over Memorial Day weekend, Adrian had a fever with
pancytopenia, meaning he had low red blood cells and
platelets and his absolute neutrophil count, a measure of his
immune system’s ability to ﬁght off infection, was trashed. In
his state, a fever was an emergency that required hospital
admission—an infection could be fatal since his body had no
ability to ﬁght it.
He had to be in the hospital to get antibiotics, ﬂuids, close
monitoring and cultures drawn to try and identify a source of
infection. He also had to have several transfusions of packed
red blood cells and platelets to try to bring those counts up.
Since he is two years old now, they had a regular hospital bed
for him to sleep in along with one of us parents. Typically, his
mom sleeps by his side in the hospital, helping to comfort him
when he gets scared or overtired. In past hospital stays, I had
to be at work, but this time, I was there in the room with
them.
On Sunday, early in the morning, my wife couldn’t sleep.
Adrian was restless. He was crying in his sleep, tossing and
turning and kicking. He couldn’t seem to get comfortable,
which was the only way they both could drift off. Alicia was at
the end of her rope and asked me to switch positions with her
(I was sleeping on a pull-out chair next to them). So we did,
and as soon as I lay in the bed with Adrian, he stopped stir‐
ring and slept peacefully. The week before, I had done an
intense meditation, and I wondered if my calm energy was
somehow making its way into Adrian, helping him relax in
this stressful place.
I realized that I had to go charge my Tesla in case we got


===== PDF PAGE 136 ===== (images: 0: [])
110
BURN-IN
discharged from the hospital, so I told Alicia that I was going
to leave since Adrian had calmed down. I left to do so, and
when I came back my wife was sound asleep in the hospital
bed, so I returned to the pull-out chair.
Later, when she woke up, she told me that she was amazed
and had never seen Adrian calm down with my presence
before, as she was usually his main source of comfort. She also
told me that when she went back to the hospital bed, she felt
an immense sense of peace, calm and inner comfort. Instead
of tossing and turning, as she had been the whole night, she
fell asleep instantly. It was as if I had created a safe space and
healing place just by lying in the bed there. As if my love for
her and for Adrian had become so powerful that it was able to
warm the bed for them, keeping them in the center of my
heart.
This is what it means to turn your love outward. It might
not come naturally at ﬁrst, but when you commit yourself to
it, you will literally see it change the lives of other people. First
your closest family, and then your friends, and then, if you’re
open to it and lucky, you can change the whole world.
I recently bought a 77” OLED television. It’s amazing—watching a
movie at home is like watching a movie in a theatre, except the popcorn at
home is 10 cents instead of $10. Even with sunlight coming through
adjacent windows, the picture is still crisply displayed with no glare
because each individual pixel lights up.
Now imagine that one pixel is the wrong color. Or simply went out.
That’s a personal problem. That’s when you get caught up in your own
head, your own story. You might think, “What the hell! I paid a few
thousand bucks for this thing, and this is the quality I get!?”
But if you look at the whole screen, you would never notice. Because
it’s one tiny dot in a sea of eight million dots that are independently


===== PDF PAGE 137 ===== (images: 1: [159])
We’re All in This Together
111
shining brightly to form the movie that is your amazing life, woven like a
giant tapestry.
Another way to look at it if TVs are not your thing:
In medical school, we learn anatomy and physiology. We understand
how the circulatory system works. I want you to ponder for a moment:
what if a human being were just a red blood cell?
A red blood cell is born from the bone marrow and starts with a
nucleus. This baby red blood cell sees everything as shiny and new and is
as full of love and joy as a child. Over time though, the mature red blood
cell loses its nucleus and its childlike sense of joy and wonder as it is


===== PDF PAGE 138 ===== (images: 0: [])
112
BURN-IN
released to do its job. The red blood cell has a singular function: to pick up
oxygen in the lungs and deliver it to other organs in the body. It gets to see
new and interesting things throughout the body from traversing the kidney
to visiting the brain.
The red cell doesn’t understand when its friends and loved ones pass
away. When the platelet goes and sacriﬁces itself to heal an open wound
in the body, the red cell asks, “Why is this happening? How is this fair?”
The red cell cannot see the big picture, that it was the platelet’s
purpose to die in order for the larger organism to survive and for all of the
other blood cells and organs to continue living as well. The red cell itself
only has a limited life span of maybe 100 days, and when it passes
through the ﬁlter of the spleen and can no longer function in the capacity
in which it was meant to, it is gobbled up and thanked for its service.
The red blood cell experiences the great privilege of living a mean‐
ingful life and playing a vital role to the larger organism, although to the
red cell, it may feel like its job is not important when there are 25 trillion
other red blood cells. The red cell can easily lose sight of its grand adven‐
ture when all it sees are the insides of the arteries, veins, capillaries, heart
and organs. When it travels 66,000 miles seeing the body through its own
experience.
The red blood cell never can get out of the body—it is trapped within
the circulatory system unless the larger organism is injured or there is a
problem. So, the red cell can never see the beauty of the eye or the human
form when looking at the outside. It is only when the red cell expands its
mind’s eye that it can imagine the possibility of something bigger than
itself. Or when the red cell is taken out of circulation and dies, then it is
dissolved into the larger human organism again and can see things as they
really are.


===== PDF PAGE 139 ===== (images: 1: [162])
We’re All in This Together
113
Finding love for other people: that’s the universe. That’s beauty and
grace and love and joy. That’s ﬁre.


===== PDF PAGE 140 ===== (images: 1: [164])
114
BURN-IN
If this story moved you, scan the QR code below to donate to Paul
DeWolf’s memorial scholarship to honor Paul’s memory. For my part, I’ll
be donating 10 percent of this book’s ﬁrst month of proceeds to the schol‐
arship program as well.


===== PDF PAGE 141 ===== (images: 0: [])
NINE
Making Money Work for You
I have a question for you: what role does money play in your
life?
There are no wrong answers here—in fact, I’d love for you
to just shout out the ﬁrst things that come to mind. (Afraid to
shout and sound weird? Get over your ego. Nobody cares. You
can be reading on the subway or in the quiet of your own
home. Shout it out. Seriously!)
Does it stress you out because you don’t have enough and
feel like you need more? Are you intimidated by money—
earning it, spending it and managing it? Are you the kind of
person who logs into your online banking portal multiple
times a day to make sure the numbers look the way they’re
supposed to? Or are you taking off to Vegas for the weekend,
ﬁguring you’ll worry about bills next week?
Most of us, I think, fall somewhere in between those two
extremes: we stay on top of things, but we don’t necessarily
have a ton of free time to devote to studying ﬁnance. We want
to take care of our families, save for the future and treat
ourselves to something nice every so often.
One of the tricky things about medicine and money is that
jobs like doctor and nurse have long been held up as examples


===== PDF PAGE 142 ===== (images: 0: [])
116
BURN-IN
of “success,” especially in America. Even if we set aside the
TV caricature of the rich doctor living in a beachfront
mansion and dating a series of supermodels, most people still
think doctors have it made when it comes to cash. And many
doctors do pull down high salaries.
Weatherby Healthcare, in its 2021 analysis of what
doctors are earning, pegged the average plastic surgeon’s
salary at more than $500,000, with the average family medi‐
cine doctor earning just over $200,000. That is, by almost
every metric, a lot of money! But for a lot of our colleagues, it
also comes with high debt.
The average medical student’s debt, according to think
tank educationdata.org, is more than $200,000—and that’s
just for medical school, meaning if you’ve taken out loans to
pay for an undergrad or master’s degree, the number climbs
even higher. This isn’t even considering the opportunity cost
of spending your prime early career days in school and gradu‐
ating from the 25th grade. Recall that a dollar today is worth
more than a dollar tomorrow due to inﬂation, so throw that
into consideration as well.
The loan ﬁgures for nurses are a bit lower: according to
Nerdwallet, the average student debt for a nurse with a master
of science degree is around $50,000, with nurses who earn
bachelor’s and associate’s degrees owing slightly less. That
seems more reasonable, right? But per the Bureau of Labor
Statistics, the average registered nurse earns around $75,000 a
year.
These salaries are nothing to sniff at, but factor in things
like loan repayment, cost of living, childcare and putting
something aside for retirement and even $500,000 goes
quicker than you might think. If you live in a big city on the
coast with a high cost of living, support a large family and try
to keep up with the Joneses by driving a nice car and sending
your kids to private school, it’s not hard to ﬁnd yourself living
paycheck to paycheck on a doctor’s salary.


===== PDF PAGE 143 ===== (images: 0: [])
Making Money Work for You
117
It doesn’t help that we as a profession just don’t talk
enough about money. Seriously: one of the most important
things I want you to take from this book is the idea that it’s
okay to ask (and answer) questions about ﬁnances—in fact, it’s
better than okay! Questions like:
What is the economic reality of running your own
practice versus taking an employed position?
What’s a fair salary for what amount of work?
What’s a good one, and what’s a bad one? Am I
being paid more or less than my peers for the same
amount of work and productivity?
Is it better to pay off loans ﬁrst or start investing? Is
it okay to invest while I still have debt?
I could go on because there’s a ton of stuff about money
so many of us are learning the hard way—that is, through
messing up our own finances and scrambling to correct. No
one will ever care about your financial health as much as you
do, so in the same way I encouraged you to take ownership
of your own thoughts in previous chapters, I want you to
take ownership over your money and your financial
future now.
What is the point of investing? There are two answers—one
of them is philosophical, and the other involves a basic
equation.
Let’s start with philosophy.
Investing, or trying to grow the money you have into more
money later, is about the future you want. It’s paying off your
loans early or putting your own kids through college. It’s a
once-in-a-lifetime trip around the world or helping a family
member during a crisis. It’s about—if this is what you want—


===== PDF PAGE 144 ===== (images: 0: [])
118
BURN-IN
quitting your job and devoting your time to volunteer work or
meditation or gardening.
That’s why the concept of total WEALTH from chapter
seven is so important. If you want to get rich for the sake of
getting rich, you might get there. You might already have
more money than me—I may be a millionaire, but I’m no
billionaire. But if you don’t have goals, what’s the point? Part
of learning how to lay down your ego and turn off the noise, I
think, is to ﬁnd those goals—to ﬁgure out who you really are
and what values are going to drive the rest of your life.
Now, it’s time to talk about the other part of investing, and
to make it clear, I’m going to let Warren Buffett, one of the
richest men in the world (and one of this country’s savviest
businessmen) tell you his number-one rule of investing:
“Don’t lose money.”
His number two rule?
“Don’t forget rule number one.”
Part of not losing money is not spending more than you
earn and building up an emergency fund that will allow you to
cover unforeseen expenses without going into debt. The other
part of it is to beat inﬂation. This basically means that in 50
years you want your money to be worth more than it’s worth
today, and since you have no control over the federal govern‐
ment and its long-term ﬁscal policies, the best way to do that is
to get your money multiplying now. That’s going to require
some work on your part, both in deciding how you want to
put your money to work and deciding what kinds of invest‐
ments you don’t want to make.
This brings us to the stock market.
One way to not build wealth is by doing what a lot of
people think is the best move: picking individual stocks your‐
self and thinking you’ll be able to ﬁnd The One that will make
you rich.
How can you know whether a stock is going up or down at
any given time? Are you familiar with security analysis or are


===== PDF PAGE 145 ===== (images: 1: [170])
Making Money Work for You
119
you just making emotional purchases? You got a good feeling
about a stock because you heard a hot tip from a random
person like your uncle? Do you think you have more knowl‐
edge than the senators and other government ofﬁcials who are
briefed on conﬁdential information such as the COVID-19
pandemic and are able to take advantage and dump their
shares before the 2020 stock market crash? 
Unless you’re Michael Burry and you can cripple hedge
funds, don’t mess around with securities that you don’t
understand.
Granted, Burry dropped out of neurology residency to
become a full-time investor and open his own hedge fund. But
if you’re a full-time health-care professional, do you really
think you’re going to beat sophisticated hedge funds and


===== PDF PAGE 146 ===== (images: 1: [174])
120
BURN-IN
people working 120 hours a week on the market research
side?
You really think with even your fastest Comcast subscrip‐
tion, you will beat the hedge funds who have ﬁber optic wire
placed so they can churn millions of transactions in between
the time you click “sell” on Schwab and it executes in New
York? Have you ever read an income statement or balance
sheet? Do you really think you have more information than
the guy who is subtly insider trading without alerting the
SEC? And even if the playing ﬁeld were level and everyone
had the same information, do you even know how to use the
existing information? Are you aware that there are armies of
quantitative analysts (quants) who live, breathe and eat this:
And if you don’t recognize that as the Black-Scholes
partial differential equation and you’re still thinking you’re an
expert stock picker, tell me what security you’re buying: I’ll be
happy to take your shirt.
It helps to think of the market as a casino in this sense: it
always wins! You might get lucky, but you probably won’t. It’s
also way more stress than you need to take on, especially if
you’re just starting to earn a full salary after years of school
and residency. The same goes for cryptocurrencies.
I’ve had some success there, but I only invested money I
could afford to lose. It’s not like I’m keeping Adrian’s college
fund in Dogecoin. You may be hyped up by social media, but
where you put your money talks more than Twitter posts.
Look at someone’s actual ﬁnancial holdings and status before
you follow what they tweet. Elon Musk may be a fan of Doge,
but there’s a reason that Tesla bought Bitcoin and not the
former.


===== PDF PAGE 147 ===== (images: 0: [])
Making Money Work for You
121
So, if you’re not picking your own stocks and hoping for
the best, what are you doing in the market? I’ll tell you what I
would do if I were your standard FIRE guru: buy VTSAX
and chill. That is, buy a basket of every single security traded
in the New York Stock Exchange that is weighted by their
market cap, so you own little slivers of Apple, Google, Netﬂix
and so on. But even here, do you understand what index
you’re buying and why? Have you ever even read a fund’s
prospectus?
I would say that as a health-care worker, you should do the
bare minimum, which is to save and invest in the stock market.
You could dollar cost average into an index fund—that is,
investing a set amount of money each month into something
that will capture market gains over time while remembering
that today’s crash is tomorrow’s soaring economy (and vice
versa).
Buy when the market is low; buy when the market is high.
Just keep buying until your portfolio’s money starts making
money. In short: play it safe. There’s nothing wrong with
playing it safe! If what you want is to work steadily and enjoy
a nice retirement, conservative investing is probably going to
get you there. It’s a safe route to the moon—by horse and
buggy.
When you start earning more, or your net worth grows to
a certain point, you will receive the SEC designation of
accredited investor. Then you will have access to high-risk,
high-reward offerings that are not available to the general
public because if you’re not a millionaire, you can easily lose
your shirt.
You might ﬁnd yourself dealing with hedge funds or high-
level money managers who work exclusively with clients who
have a high net worth. The FIRE gurus and Bogle-heads will
say that having a fund take one or two percent against your
assets under management is a waste of money, but I would say
it is worth it to pay a premium for those who can execute.


===== PDF PAGE 148 ===== (images: 0: [])
122
BURN-IN
But what if you want to increase your net worth fast?
What if you want to develop a passive stream of income,
maximize tax advantages and set yourself up for FIRE? That’s
where alternative wealth-building strategies come in, and for
me, the one that makes the most sense—and pays the highest
dividends at the fastest speed—is real estate investing.
I get that as a concept, it’s kind of scary: what if your
tenants don’t pay the rent? What if the roof collapses? What
if you live in the San Francisco Bay Area and you had to save
for ﬁve years for a down payment on your own primary resi‐
dence? Well, off the top of my head, here are some answers to
those questions:
What if my tenants call me about a leaky toilet at 2 am? What if
they don’t pay the rent?
First, let me say that I’ve never been bothered about a
toilet in any of my properties. Second, if you’re a doctor, then
you have been, are actively or will be called about way more
serious emergencies all the time about your patients. It would
not be the end of the world even if you were self-managing
and had to deal with a problem from a tenant directly.
Second, one of the most important parts of investing in
real estate is building a team you can trust—a property
manager who makes sure the lawn gets mowed and the base‐
ment doesn’t ﬂood (and if it does, that someone comes in and
dries it out and mitigates the risk moving forward).
Someone who will handle all phone calls, so you never
get called about a leaky or clogged toilet. Someone who can
help you screen tenants to find the most solid candidates
with good jobs and credit. But you also don’t have to have
individual tenants at all—you can invest in commercial real
estate and rent space to large corporations, chain stores,
even the government. Even a Home Depot can decide to
stop paying you rent, but you’re probably going to do okay
with a publicly traded company as your tenant most of the
time.


===== PDF PAGE 149 ===== (images: 0: [])
Making Money Work for You
123
What if the roof collapses? What if there’s a ﬁre? Earthquake?
Hurricane? Tornado?
You’ll have insurance (or you should buy it). Also, since
you’ll be collecting rent every month, you’ll have access to
cash that you can use for repairs and maintenance.
What if you live in the San Francisco Bay Area and you had to save
for ﬁve years for a down payment on your own primary residence?
There’s no rule that says you must buy investment proper‐
ties in the city or town you live in. Most of my income
producing properties are out of state. I’m always paying atten‐
tion to the real estate market in places outside of California to
see what areas might make sense to invest in.
California is a pain because the taxes are high, the laws
favor tenants and you can basically have squatters in your
home forever. Imagine that you loaned your nice car to a
friend, and he agreed to pay you $100 a day for it. Then he
just kept the car and stopped paying you. And then he got
drunk, hit someone with it, vomited in the back seat, totaled
the car and ran away. That’s what it can feel like if you have a
bad tenant who trashes your property and stops paying you
rent—and you can’t evict them, or it takes forever to get
them out.
Being a landlord gets demonized and it can create an
apparent riff between the haves and the have-nots. Just put
yourself in the shoes of the other party. There are landlords
who do not care for their properties, and I’ve seen frankly
dangerous living conditions like outlets that don’t work, people
running extension cords hundreds of feet for a light, non-
licensed work and people trying to cram extended families of
20 into three-bedroom homes.
I’ve also seen tenants smash windows for being given an
eviction notice after not paying rent for three months. It goes
both ways. If you’re a landlord, give your tenant a safe space
to live. If you’re a tenant, take care of the privilege of being in
that home and pay the rent on time.


===== PDF PAGE 150 ===== (images: 0: [])
124
BURN-IN
If you can set aside even a small portion of your salary
each month, I think you’ll ﬁnd that a down payment, espe‐
cially for a property in a market that isn’t as hot as the ones in
California or New York, is achievable for a lot of people
working in the medical ﬁeld. In Oakland, California, which
gets a bad rap sometimes due to the housing shortage, a 1600-
square-foot duplex can cost around a million bucks. That
same duplex, if you transported it to Missouri, might be sold
for $150K.
I was recently talking to a friend about the idea that humans sometimes
act like we're wearing shock collars—like there's an invisible boundary
we're afraid to cross.
Not long after, my wife told me about an experience she had. Medi‐
tating in the car (we have to ﬁnd time where we can these days!), she had
a vision of herself walking around in a yard, a patch of yellow grass.
Beyond the yard was a long green ﬁeld, and the grass extended to the hori‐
zon. As she moved towards the farthest reaches of the space, she felt a
shock—an electrical shock.
Later that day, she went to the pharmacy to pick up medicine for
Adrian. The drug he needed was out of stock, and she was worried she
wouldn't be able to get it in time. It was stressful at ﬁrst, but she suddenly
felt conﬁdent and calm, sure she'd be able to solve the problem (which, by
the end of the day, she did).
She told me that during this experience, she realized what her vision
while meditating earlier in the day meant. The shock she felt at the border
was her own fear, and that there was no reason that she could not step
over into the ﬁeld of grass. That she and humankind are all limitless, and
that when she put her mind to something important, it would get done no
matter what.


===== PDF PAGE 151 ===== (images: 1: [180])
Making Money Work for You
125
Discomfort is the development of your dreams—that's why they're
called growing pains. There is a future version of you that has already
breezed past this obstacle, so connect with that higher Self. Choose to show
up as the version of you who decides to push past the point of resistance
and go beyond your fears and self-imposed limits.


===== PDF PAGE 152 ===== (images: 0: [])
TEN
Playing to Win
When I was growing up, I loved watching The Simpsons. It’s
been on forever and I hope it stays on forever, and that some‐
time in the not-so-distant future, I’m watching it with Adrian
on Sunday nights.
There’s a scene that to this day is lodged into my brain.
The Simpson family gathers around the table for board game
night. They settle on playing Monopoly, and before you know
it, the game has descended into chaos. Homer is strangling
Bart, with Marge and Lisa trying to pull them off each other,
while Maggie, the baby, pushes a special panic button
designed for exactly this purpose. When the cops show up,
they have a conversation they’ve clearly had 100 times before.
“Oh, another case of Monopoly-related violence,” one
cop says wearily.
“How do those Parker Brothers sleep at night?” his
partner asks.
I love Monopoly, and I love that it isn’t just a board game.
If you pay attention, it becomes an easy way to understand
exactly how to invest in real estate. I want to walk you through
some lessons I’ve learned on the Monopoly board, which will


===== PDF PAGE 153 ===== (images: 1: [183])
Playing to Win
127
allow you to visualize yourself doing your own wheeling and
dealing.
Are you ready? Collect your $200 and let’s go!
Start Small, Think Big
When you want to win in Monopoly, one of the ﬁrst things
you must learn is that you have to start buying up the lower-
status (and lower-value) properties. I think a novice—in
Monopoly or in real-life real estate investing—would run into
the problem that these investments don’t always scream
instant wealth.
In Monopoly, the cheap properties cost $60 to own, and
they only deliver $2 in rent. It doesn't seem like it's worth it,
but I promise you, it is—you can’t have a monopoly (or a
successful real estate portfolio) without starting and getting on
the board. Once you buy one of these properties, it becomes
easy to buy others; before you know it, you own everything on
the block.
Whether your growth is linear or exponential, your ﬁrst
point is still coordinate (1,1)—and from there, you can decide
to scale at whatever pace is right for you.


===== PDF PAGE 154 ===== (images: 0: [])
128
BURN-IN
Two dollars quickly becomes $4. Because in the game,
your rent doubles when you own a monopoly. But the real
beneﬁt in owning a monopoly is you can start to develop the
land. You can put houses and hotels there, and sooner rather
than later, you’re collecting $20 every time someone lands on
one of your squares.
So, how does this translate to real life? The lesson here is
that you want to invest early and often. You’ve got to start
somewhere. Unless you inherited a ton of property, you’re not
going to own a giant complex or shopping center right out of
the gate. You don’t yet have the capital to go out and buy a
casino or a chain of hotels (though if you do, call me!).
Your ﬁrst deal should be relatively small, which is good!
You need to start learning how to buy assets. Assets, at their
simplest deﬁnition, are things that put money in your pocket
every month. My personal belief is that for a physician, your
ﬁrst income property or investment property in real estate
should be a small residential multi-family unit, speciﬁcally a
duplex.
You don't want to buy a single-family home, because then
—especially in markets like the one we’ve been dealing with in
2020 and 2021—you’ll ﬁnd yourself competing with people
who are looking for their dream homes. A dream home is an
emotional buy, which means people are willing to spend more
money to get a property under contract. For you, it’s a
number; for them, it’s The One. When you're looking at any
investment, whether it’s stocks, bonds, real estate or cryptocur‐
rency, it will beneﬁt you to think logically. You’re not here to
live in these properties; you’re here to make money, and
remembering that will make deals a lot easier to parse.


===== PDF PAGE 155 ===== (images: 0: [])
Playing to Win
129
Cash In, Cash Out
In Monopoly, what are the best squares to own? I think
everyone knows the answer: Park Place and Boardwalk. If
you’re lucky enough to land on the latter of these spots, you
get the opportunity to spend $400 to buy it from the bank.
Once you cough up the money, it's yours. There's no mortgage
on it. You don't have to make monthly payments. And now,
anytime someone rolls the dice and lands on Boardwalk, they
owe you $50 in rent.
These numbers allow us to calculate and evaluate invest‐
ments against each other. Whenever you look at investments,
you want to compare apples to apples. It’s hard to say, “What
is the income produced by this duplex compared to this triplex
or a self-storage facility? Or a medical ofﬁce building versus a
single-family home or 100-unit apartment complex?” It's chal‐
lenging to compare apples to oranges. But if you get down to
the raw numbers, then you can compare apples to apples. One
way to do that is called cash-on-cash calculation.
That means you’re looking at how much money you get
back for the cash that you put into a deal. For Boardwalk, you
spend $400 once and own that asset forever. Any time your
rivals land on Boardwalk, they owe you rent. So, the ﬁrst time
somebody lands on your Boardwalk property, you get $50.
From there, it’s easy fractions: 50 over 400 reduces to one over
eight, or 12.5 percent. That means your cash-on-cash calcula‐
tion is 12.5 percent.
In real life, this translates to you growing your portfolio by
12.5 percent year over year, which is a healthy return.
Let’s say you own a real-life duplex, and we’ll do the calcu‐
lation again, adding a few zeroes to everything. You buy a
duplex in Texas, and it costs you $400,000, which you have in
cash because you’ve been living on a portion of your salary
and saving the rest. Then you plug in the same numbers: if
your duplex is producing $50,000 per year net and you spent


===== PDF PAGE 156 ===== (images: 0: [])
130
BURN-IN
$400,000 upfront to buy it, then your cash and cash return is
12.5 percent.
A lot of people—even doctors and nurses who have done
years of post–high school science work—are afraid of math.
But this isn’t advanced calculus we’re doing here! When it
comes to budgeting for life and evaluating real estate invest‐
ments, the math is not difﬁcult. These are skills you learned in
elementary school. We’re just using different names and oper‐
ating with bigger numbers. You can get fancy and think about
more complex variables, but it's nothing that is outside the skill
set of a physician (or most people who graduated high school).
I’m also writing this in 2021, which means there are apps and
calculators and spreadsheets that will do the math for you.
You don’t have to do math to get into real estate if you don’t
want to! You just have to insert the correct number in the
correct place.
Let's look at another example. Say you didn't land on
Boardwalk, but instead on its ever-so-slightly less sexy
neighbor Park Place. Park Place costs $350, and the rent that
it generates when somebody else lands on it is $35.
So again, let’s put the rent on the top of the investment.
$35 divided by $350 is 35/350 or 3.5/35, or 1/10 or 0.1,
which is 10 percent cash on cash.
What if you’ve landed on both properties and were lucky
enough each time to have the cash on hand to buy them? In
Monopoly, when you own all properties of the same color, the
rent on each of them doubles.
If I own Boardwalk and Park Place, when somebody lands
on Boardwalk again, instead of paying $50, they owe me
$100. And if we're going to calculate the cash-on-cash return
for somebody landing on Boardwalk, then the rent paid to you
is $100.
To purchase both, you had to pay $400 for Boardwalk and
$350 for Park Place. Add those together and you get $750. So
that’s 100/750, or 10/75, which is 13 percent cash on cash.


===== PDF PAGE 157 ===== (images: 0: [])
Playing to Win
131
That’s a better return than you’ll get in the stock market if
you held a low-cost index fund for a long time, making this
collection of assets a smart one to hold.
From there, you can start developing. It costs $200 to put a
house on Boardwalk, which is a pretty penny—but if you have
it? Everyone who lands on Boardwalk has to pay you $200.
That’s a 100 percent cash-on-cash return at 200/200.
“But Patrick,” you’re saying, “I had to spend money to buy
the actual property!”
Which is fair, especially if we’re applying these lessons to
your real life. The rent you’re collecting is $200, which you’ll
put atop your total investment of $950, which equals 21
percent cash-on-cash return. It’s not 100 percent, but it’s still
spectacular. You’d be very happy to pay a hedge fund a two
percent management fee to get you a 21 percent return on
your money.
With the existing equity in the properties, there is also an
opportunity to sell in cases of signiﬁcant market appreciation.
Say I bought a duplex for $120,000 last year. I put 25% down
of the purchase price to represent 25% equity in the property
($30,000). The bank ﬁnanced the rest of the purchase,
meaning the bank’s loan to me is 75% of $120,000 or $90,000
total with associated interest and amortization over 30 years.
Now, the property doubles in value to $240,000, which is
realistic with a value add play or if you let ﬁve years go by
with local appreciation. If I sell the property for $240,000,
then I get the home’s $90,000 loan paid off—or whatever was
left of it after servicing that debt over the time period. After
that, I keep the remaining $150,000 minuses taxes, closing
costs and other expenses of course. At a high level, I collect
almost $150,000 for doing minimal work: $30,000 from the
down payment, $120,000 in equity.
There are also selling expenses from the closing costs, and
the rehab budget. Realistically, you could expect $15,000 in
selling costs and $15,000 in rehab that you put into it. Oh,


===== PDF PAGE 158 ===== (images: 0: [])
132
BURN-IN
and don’t forget taxes you pay, which are probably either 15%
or 20% if you’re a physician. Assuming the highest bracket,
then you get $72,000 back to you. Still, not a bad proﬁt!
Assets that increase in value also increase your equity in
them. Let’s say that in my imaginary $120,000 duplex, I have
25% equity and the bank has funded 75%. Now, the bank
loan doesn’t increase—it’s still $90,000, so I now have 62.5%
equity! Now, say I want some of that cash in my wallet or to
use to buy another $120,000 duplex. Now I tell the bank,
“Hey, I want to cash out reﬁnance.” This means they will give
me a new loan of 75% of the $240,000, which equals
$180,000 loaned and $60,000 back to me. Thus, I get all of
the cash back from before ($30,000) plus a cool extra $30,000
in my bank account. Now, my proﬁt is freed from the money
jail of sitting in the duplex without having to sell the asset and
trigger a capital gains event. This is tax free cash! Recall that
if you sold at long term capital gains, you would have had a
drag of 20%. The cash out reﬁnance can be a powerful
strategy to making your money work even harder for you!
You Have to Play to Win
The second lesson of Monopoly is that if you don't invest your
money, you will never win. You’ll be paying rent and saying
goodbye to your dollars without any coming in to offset those
costs. There's no way in hell you're going to make enough
money running around the board, trying to collect $200 to
pass Go every time. There’s the Community Chest option, but
the money you can get from that isn’t likely to be big. You
might get $10 for winning a beauty contest or $50 for acting
as the Chairman of the Board.
If you have a W2, you are trading time for money. You
must clock in to work at 8 am, clock out at 5 pm and make the
salary you agreed upon when you took the job. If you’re not
doing that, then you don't get paid. There’s no money coming


===== PDF PAGE 159 ===== (images: 0: [])
Playing to Win
133
in. Just as you work, so too does your money. Money doesn’t
just magically multiply; it has to clock in, too. If you’re
holding all of your money in a savings account that isn’t
keeping up with inﬂation or hiding the money in your mattress
or a safe, you will never become rich. You will never build
wealth. In fact, you are losing money every second those dollars
are not put to work.
The government prints more money, which causes inﬂa‐
tion. The cost of goods rises. As a result, everything starts to
cost more money over time. If you happen to ﬁnd yourself a
time machine, you’ll very quickly learn that a dollar today is
worth more than a dollar tomorrow. And a dollar 20 years ago
went a lot further than a dollar today.
That's all due to inﬂation. It’s a trap that even smart
people sometimes fall into. They get excited that real estate
appreciates, for example. They might say, “Okay, I bought my
house for $300,000 30 years ago and now it's worth $2
million.” That can seem very exciting, but with inﬂation, you
learn that the spending power of $300,000 in 1970s dollars is
equivalent to the spending power of $2,100,000 in 2021
dollars. So again, we have to compare apples to apples. If you
bought your house in the 1970s, you probably paid a lot less
money than what the house would sell for in the market today
in terms of the absolute value of the list price.
It's not enough to just save your money. You have to grow
your money. You have to make your money work for you;
otherwise you’ll be working for it—forever. That sounds
dramatic, but it’s true. And I don't know about you, but I don't
want to work until I die. I want to live a life that is full of
meaning, joy and service. I also don’t want to fall into the
habit of thinking that more money means more happiness.
This is worth saying again, even though I’ve said it more than
once already: money will not bring you happiness.
Which is why—and I get that this sounds strange—you
have to make your money do the work. When your money is


===== PDF PAGE 160 ===== (images: 0: [])
134
BURN-IN
working, you’re free to spend your time building and living the
life you want.
Hitting and Missing
In the 19th century, a lot of people got rich buying oil compa‐
nies or starting railroads. You, however, don't have to bother
with those things.
In 2009, a business student won the Monopoly world
championship in Las Vegas, where the grand prize was
$20,000. For playing Monopoly!
His advice: you shouldn't buy the utilities or the railroads
because you only have a 3 percent chance of making money
from them.
Here’s my real-world parallel: commercial real estate
investing can be very hit or miss. In real life, if you buy a big
commercial office building, you have a big mortgage. If
nobody lands on the railroad or the utility, or nobody lands
on your real-life commercial office building, you’re stuck with
an asset that isn’t earning any money. Very quickly, that asset
becomes a liability, where it takes money out of your pocket
every month. As I write this in mid-2021, many American
cities are just now starting to see office workers return after
the great work-from-home reshuffling caused by the
COVID-19 pandemic. What do you think your bank
account balance would look like if you owned a 20-story
commercial office building in the heart of New York City
after 18 months of expiring leases your tenants chose not to
renew?
You must be very careful and critical in evaluating an asset
class that has a long turnover time. For me, it's like this:
anyone can buy a home. Anyone can buy a small, multi-family
property like a duplex or a quadplex. Eventually, one can buy
a shopping center in a busy community that will always have
banks, pharmacies and grocery stores. Everyone in real life


===== PDF PAGE 161 ===== (images: 0: [])
Playing to Win
135
can’t buy a utility company like an electric company, a water
company or a railroad.
Large-scale commercial properties are a different game,
and they behave differently. You can very easily lose your shirt,
or at the very least, spend a lot of time worrying, which is
exactly what I want to help you avoid.
Getting Out of Jail
In Monopoly, it’s okay to go to jail late in the game. Think
about what the board looks like when the game is almost
done. Every property is bought up, and people have built
houses and hotels. Every roll, there’s the possibility that you’re
going to be the one ponying up $2,000 for the privilege of
stopping on Atlantic Avenue decked out with a hotel.
Depending on how you’ve been playing, this might mean
you’re going to go bankrupt. Wouldn’t it be nice to take a little
break right about now? The rules of the game state that you
can go to jail by rolling doubles three times in a row or pulling
the famous card: Go to Jail, Do Not Pass Go, Do Not Collect
$200. On paper, it doesn’t sound ideal. But in the game, when
everyone owns everything, your trips around the board are like
walking on eggshells, and you’re just hoping that you don't
land on a property so developed that you lose all your cash.
I should be very clear: this isn’t going to be a literal lesson
in which I advise you to go to jail.
What I want is for you to recognize that there are different
stages in your life and different stages of the Monopoly game.
Early in the game, going to jail sucks. You don't get the chance
to evaluate the real estate deals as you roll the dice and walk
around the board. You’re not in the game. It’s those early rolls
—and those small properties—where you’re laying the
groundwork for your eventual empire.
Investing in real estate, if that’s the path you want to
pursue, is something you should be doing early and often. It’s


===== PDF PAGE 162 ===== (images: 0: [])
136
BURN-IN
like they always say: the best time to plant a tree was 20 years
ago. The second-best time to plant a tree is right now.
What is it going to take for you to buy your ﬁrst income
property? What is it going to take for you to decide to change
your life? You don't want to wait any longer than you've been
waiting.
When it comes to going to Monopoly jail late in the game,
if you’ve played smart, you have nothing to worry about. Your
wallet is full of that pink and blue money, and since you can’t
go anywhere, you don’t have to part with it.
Life, as we all know, includes very few moments that don’t
cost money, time or energy. Let’s say you have a nice home,
but the roof collapses and it's not covered by your insurance.
In an instant, you have to spend $20,000. The same way that
your beautiful new McLaren $300,000 car could be the victim
of a hit and run by a tourist bus in a parking lot when you’re
not around, and now you’re stuck picking up the pieces and
paying for repairs out of your own pocket.
Here’s another hypothetical: you're a doctor and you think
you have job security, but there's a global pandemic. Your
hospital employer ﬁres you because of this act of God, and
they're just trying to survive the crisis. Your family depends on
your income, and you have none.
The liquidity, or the cash you have on hand, can quickly
become tested. If you don't maintain an emergency fund, if
you don't have a little bit set aside, then what are you going to
do when the shit hits the fan?
If you want to invest in real estate, I want to help you. I
want you to make money and have fun! But I also want you to
consider having an emergency fund that you have easy and
quick access to. Again, all of this is pointless if you’re just
going to end up more stressed and more burned out.
Think of your emergency fund as a box of matches you
can use to relight your ﬁre when you feel it ﬂickering and
dying.


===== PDF PAGE 163 ===== (images: 0: [])
Playing to Win
137
Friends or Foes?
Monopoly, as we know from The Simpsons, is a fundamentally
competitive game. For every property you buy, there’s one you
lose—and when it comes to owning the game’s most desirable
lots, it’s every person for themselves.
The people you’re playing against want to make more
money than you. They want you to go bankrupt. They want
to develop land. And they want you to sit in jail with nothing.
The way you protect yourself in the game is twofold: ﬁrst,
you’re buying properties and building houses and scoring
monopolies of your own. Second, you’re going on the offen‐
sive. If one of your friends or family members needs to secure
Baltic Avenue to hold a monopoly and you land on it? Guess
who’s the new landlord for that section of the board?
In real life, you want to protect yourself from downside
potential. While it’s sort of fun to imagine another literal
translation here, I’m not advising you to buy up everything
anyone else wants to buy whenever you get the chance. That
would be bad ﬁnancial advice, and it would be bad advice for
being a good and respectful member of society.
Here’s an example you can use: right now, the cost of
building a new home is higher than it’s been in decades.
Lumber, among other commodities, is incredibly expensive—a
$20 piece of plywood a year ago now costs way more, with
prices climbing 300 percent or more during the pandemic.
You’re investing in properties that already exist as opposed
to buying new ones, but this still matters for you. If your
duplex needs repairs, there’s a good chance you’ll need to buy
some lumber! If you want to build a new home, it will cost
more than any existing home on the market. The cost to build
a new home in 2021 is much higher than it was in 2020 due to
multiple market forces outside of your personal control.
My super savvy real estate and hotel developer friend Jake
Harris, author of the best-selling book Catching Knives: A Guide


===== PDF PAGE 164 ===== (images: 0: [])
138
BURN-IN
to Investing in Distressed Commercial Real Estate, found that it was
cheaper and faster to source lumber from brokers in Europe
(speciﬁcally Nordic Spruce for heavy timber beams and
columns) and sail it across the Atlantic Ocean to build a
mixed-use project in East Austin than to rely on his previous
vendors and local suppliers. This saved the project and its
investors millions of dollars during a global pandemic in
which many people were losing their shirts.
Here’s one way that you could capitalize on a lumber
bubble: buy cheap houses that are less expensive to own than
to build new. That is, pick up a tiny single-family home in
Indiana for $20,000 when the price of lumber to build that
same home is substantially higher. Or, put some more zeroes
behind that number, depending on your liquidity or appetite
to raise capital, and buy a casino on the Las Vegas Strip that
would cost more to rebuild than what you bought it for, thanks
to COVID-19 keeping everyone at home and tourists away.
Now, I’m not telling everyone to go out and syndicate
apartment buildings and casinos, but what I am saying is that
opportunities abound in this world if you keep an open mind
and an open heart. It’s not like you screw over the guy who is
selling at a desperate time. It can be a win-win situation,
which I believe is the best way to do business.
Imagine you’re a hotel owner and about to go bankrupt.
You can’t afford to pay the mortgage, and the bank is going to
start garnishing your wages if you can’t pay the bills. Maybe
you’re a doctor and real estate investor, but you made a bad
call with this hotel and now have debt service of $10,000,000
to the bank. You already paid $4,000,000 and have that much
equity and bought the building at $14,000,000. Then it’s 2008
or there’s some sort of market force that cripples the economy,
and the building you bought is now worth only $12,000,000.
Or $10,000,000. Or $8,000,000. Yet, you still owe money on
the $10,000,000 note to the bank. Your debt service is around
$700,000 a year, and time is running out before that note is


===== PDF PAGE 165 ===== (images: 0: [])
Playing to Win
139
due. You’re about to lose big, and are probably feeling signiﬁ‐
cant pressure.
Then I come along and say:
Hey dude, I’m sorry you’re in this bad situation. I love your
hotel, but it’s unfortunately not worth the $14,000,000 you
paid for it right now. If you had the liquidity to withstand
the market coming back over a period of years, then you
wouldn’t sell. You’d pinch pennies and survive the storm,
and one day, your building would be a good investment.
In 20 years, it would be paid off, worth $20,000,000 and
you would own it outright with no debt to the bank. It
would be a great deal in that situation. But you’re not in
that situation—you’re about to ﬁle for bankruptcy. Let me
throw you a rope, because you picked a bad time to buy the
place and you’re about to drown. I’ll swoop in and hand
you a check for $10,000,000 in cash because I can afford it
and you can’t. And now, the bank will stop harassing you.
Yes, you lost $4,000,000, but at least you didn’t lose
everything. You gained a life lesson that you were over-
leveraged, and maybe you’ll be more careful in terms of
keeping capital reserves for a rainy day.
When it comes to residential housing, a lot of states are
seeing record low inventory. Everyone wants to buy a home,
and everyone feels like they can't—a recent New York Times
article interviewed one couple who made offers on nearly 100
homes and decided, after losing out on all of them, to keep
renting for a while. People are writing these insane offers: cash
only, waiving all contingencies from inspection to appraisal to
ﬁnancing.
Don’t do this! Don’t do it with residential property, and
especially don’t do it with commercial property. Learn to trust
but verify. This is called due diligence, and it means doing
your homework and understanding the full picture of what


===== PDF PAGE 166 ===== (images: 0: [])
140
BURN-IN
you’re buying before you sign the contract. You wouldn’t buy
a new car without making sure it has the engine it needs to
drive off the lot. The same goes for real estate: you do not
want to spend everything you’ve got on a shopping center only
to discover after you’ve closed that it’s infested with termites or
that no tenant has stayed for more than a year.
Part of playing both offense and defense means staying
aware of what’s going on, which a surprising number of
people don’t do. Pay attention to market trends locally, region‐
ally, nationally and globally. The world is becoming increas‐
ingly connected. A butterﬂy ﬂapping its wings in Florida may
cause a tsunami in Japan, and Japanese banks needing to
demonstrate proﬁts to their investors can sell off United States
Treasury securities (government bonds) and drive down face-
value prices of bonds while increasing yields.
If you invest out of state, make sure you’re not having the
wool pulled over your eyes because you’re an unsophisticated
out-of-state buyer from the Bay Area, where you’re used to a
duplex in Oakland costing $1,000,000. If you are, it probably
makes buying a triplex in Nebraska for $100,000 look like the
steal of a lifetime. The $100,000 may be a good or bad deal,
but you can’t compare it to the duplex in Oakland. Again, you
have to compare apples to apples. If you’re out of state, you
need to build a local team you can trust to walk the property
and make good decisions on your behalf.
You don’t have to ﬂy out and walk into a property to see if
it’s a good deal or not—there’s FaceTime, recorded video,
inspections teams, banks that are FDIC insured, cities and
county deed recordings that are all a part of a real estate
transaction. So you can deﬁnitely rest easy that you’re buying
a property that exists and that it’s not some huge conspiracy
for you to buy a vacant property. But many people in this
process are not committed—they are merely involved.
Ajahn Brahm tells a story of marriage being like the
difference between the chicken and the egg and the pig and


===== PDF PAGE 167 ===== (images: 0: [])
Playing to Win
141
the bacon. The chicken is involved. The pig is committed.
The same goes for real estate: when you have skin in the game
and money in the deal, you are committed. Anyone who is
making money off you or is a part of your team is involved.
The only person who will be the best steward for your money
and look out for your best interests financially is you. You
have to take ownership of your life, your money and your
investment deals. Above all, use your head. If something
seems too good to be true, it probably is. But fortunately,
you’ll do all the due diligence and avoid daydreaming about
how magical owning this particular property is going to be
for you.
Seriously: you’ve got this.
Risks and Tradeoffs
In Monopoly, you don't want to give away your strategy. The
same applies to your real-life, real-world, real estate invest‐
ment journey. You do, however, want to be honest: with your
partners, with your tenants and with yourself. The sooner you
can shed your cognitive biases and your attachments to your
ideas about why you won the game before or why you were
successful at investing before, the sooner you can make the
space to make honest assessments of your opportunities. From
there, you’ll build wealth faster and continue to improve.
Let's say you played Monopoly for the ﬁrst time with no
strategy, and the two things that stick out in your mind about
the game are that you won and that you bought the Electric
Company.
Let’s say it happens again. You bought the Electric
Company and won. Maybe it even happens a third time. But
recall that correlation is not the same as causation. And now,
before your next regular Monopoly game, you’re here, reading
this book. The next time you play, are you going to buy the
Electric Company even though we’ve talked about why it’s a


===== PDF PAGE 168 ===== (images: 0: [])
142
BURN-IN
bad idea and I’ve shown you other squares that will be way
more proﬁtable in the long run?
It would be a logical fallacy for you to go and buy the
Electric Company now that I've explained to you that it's not
the best way to win Monopoly. But life is not always about
winning. Playing a board game is not always about winning. If
you want to just have fun and buying the Electric Company
brings you joy, who am I to tell you not to do it?
What I am telling you is that if you want to win, the way
to do it is to play logically. Investing in real life is the same way.
When it comes to buying a primary residence, there are a lot
of factors that don’t come down to fractions. It's about peace
of mind. It's about your personal preferences and comfort and
desires that you have for yourself and your family. Your dream
house isn’t your dream house because it’s a Hollywood media
mogul’s dream house—it’s because it’s your dream house.
I love my spa, and I’m so happy we found a house that
came with one. But if you have twin toddlers who get into
everything and are always running just out of your sightline,
my dream spa might be your worst nightmare. Everything is a
risk and trade-off in life. You just need to know what game it
is that you're playing.
When it comes to investing in real estate, the game you’re
playing is one in which the winners are at the intersection of
maximum proﬁt and minimum headache. Once you identify
potential investments that sit at that point on the axis, you can
ask the questions that transcend numbers on a spreadsheet.
Is it going to help me accomplish my goals and realize my
full potential? Is it going to take me closer to my vision of how
I want my life to look, how I want my net worth to grow? How
does this ﬁt into my long-term plans not just for my portfolio
but also for my family, my business and my personal goals?
Those aren’t questions that usually come up during
Monopoly. But once you win that game, you can shift your
focus—to the game of life.


===== PDF PAGE 169 ===== (images: 1: [200])
Playing to Win
143
If you want to build an empire, you always start with your ﬁrst one. You
must get on the board before you can play the game. Decide ﬁrst, then act.
Learn the rules of how to create abundant wealth and joy in your life.
The rules are the rules for a reason. Sometimes they bend, and some‐
times they break. But a solid foundation in how to play the game will pay
dividends for the rest of your life.


===== PDF PAGE 170 ===== (images: 0: [])
ELEVEN
The Work Continues
Lately, I’ve been waking up early—like 4 or 5 am early. Why?
As busy as I am, shouldn’t I be taking every possible opportu‐
nity to rest?
For me, those morning hours are better than rest because
they’re mine. Adrian and my wife are sleeping, my patients are
sleeping and my email is quiet. It’s my time to meditate, to
contemplate, to think about what I want to get out of each
day. It’s my time to do things like write this book, nurturing
the part of myself that wants to wrestle with big ideas and try
to put some of my feelings, hopes and dreams onto the page.
It’s also my time to go outside. If I take a walk, I might see
a shooting star or something else so beautiful it takes my
breath away. I feel like when I go outside, I am ﬂoored by
nature, whether it's a bird or some new ﬂower in a yard I’ve
walked by a thousand times.
Then, I get ready for work. I spend what morning time I
can with my wife and son and then it’s off to spend a full day
seeing patients and performing surgery. When I come home,
Adrian and my wife are always excited to see me, and it’s
important that I spend at least 20 or 30 minutes just decom‐
pressing—shaking off the noise of the outside world and


===== PDF PAGE 171 ===== (images: 0: [])
The Work Continues
145
turning my focus inward to my happy family and my happy
home.
As the night winds down, we get Adrian ready for bed. We
have a whole routine: he loves our ﬁsh, and he likes to help us
feed them before bed. He puts his little ﬁngers in the ﬁsh food
and sprinkles it into the aquarium.
We try to brush his teeth. He's been resistant recently
because I think he's nauseous from his chemotherapy, but we
try as best we can, and then we read him a book. He gets his
soft little weighted Mickey Mouse that one of my friends got
him when he was in the hospital. He’ll cuddle with that and a
soft blanket, and then we turn on the night-light and the
music. Then we give him a kiss, and it's bedtime for him.
After he dozes off, I might do a little work or make some
calls, and then my wife and I spend time together. It would be
so easy for us not to do this—to only be together when we’re
with Adrian or when we’re doing errands and chores. But our
connection is vital to both of us and to our family unit, and it’s
worth it to make the effort—to go to bed at the same time,
together.
I tell you all of this not because I think the minutiae of my
day is that riveting but because I want to explain, using myself
as an example, a Buddhist saying that resonates strongly
with me:
Before enlightenment: chop wood, carry water. After enlightenment:
chop wood, carry water.
That ﬁrst time I seriously meditated, when I felt myself ask
questions of the universe and felt the universe answer back,
my whole life changed. It was like every ﬁber of my being had
been rearranged somehow, and I can say with certainty that
today, I am a very different man than the one I was a few
years ago.
But do you know what I did after that transcendent experi‐
ence? I went home. I helped my son get ready for bed. I woke
up and went to work. I chopped wood and carried water.


===== PDF PAGE 172 ===== (images: 0: [])
146
BURN-IN
Enlightenment, inner peace or true happiness? Those
aren’t ﬁxed destinations. It’s not like you wake up one
morning and think, “I’ve ﬁgured out the secret to true wealth!
Time to spend the rest of my life doing something else.” You
have the privilege to work at it, consistently. I get to work at it,
consistently.
I’m constantly being pulled in different directions. Some‐
times this is due to external factors, but sometimes it’s just
because I have a million ideas, and I want to execute them all
now. For me, then, holding on to the beauty I’ve been able to
access goes hand in hand with living in the moment.
I know that at the end of the day, when you look back
from your deathbed, you're not going to think, “I wish I’d
spent more time on business calls." I do these calls with my
team because I'm trying to build a kingdom for long-term
wealth and security for my family. You have to remember why
you're doing whatever it is you do. It’s easy to get excited
about a big real estate deal, and it’s easy to get lost in it—to
feel like the thrill of the score is what you’re after. That’s not
what I’m after, though, and I must work to remember that
every day.
I didn't always get it. I let myself get so busy that my wife
had to say, “Hey, you're not being present. You're so busy
building this thing that you're not spending quality time with
Adrian like you were before."
I listened to her and thought: “You know what? You're
right.”
So, I leaned into blocking off time on my calendar for
work and time for family, and I guard that boundary with my
life. Because when I’m with Adrian, crawling around on the
stairs, or lying on the carpet while he runs his Hot Wheels cars
on me like I'm a road? It's such a gift to get that time with my
sweet little boy, to make him laugh and show him that his
father loves him more than anything else in this world. It is a
gift, and it’s one I never want to take for granted.


===== PDF PAGE 173 ===== (images: 1: [205])
The Work Continues
147
And you know what I can’t wait for? When Adrian is in
middle school and he argues with me because he’d rather play
video games than do his homework. Now, I’m sure by the time
Adrian is in middle school, video games will probably be
homework, but it will be my job as his dad to say, “I don’t care
that you don’t want to do your homework. Homework is good
for you!” Someday, when he’s an adult, he’ll call me up and
say, “Thank you, Dad—thank you for forcing me to do my
science homework (or read a book or practice piano). I love
you.”


===== PDF PAGE 174 ===== (images: 0: [])
148
BURN-IN
It’s my job as Adrian’s dad to help him become the person
he’s meant to become. To help him become the best version
of himself. Part of how I do that is working every day to
become the best version of myself. To show him that happi‐
ness, love, beauty and care for others are things we can choose
to have, and that those things make us richer than any amount
of money ever could. I believe that as a father, it is my duty to
help my son go further.
It’s okay to have doubt. To worry that you’re doing it
wrong. Doubt is actually an awareness that there is a version
of you that has capabilities beyond what you dare to dream.
There is a future version of yourself that has accomplished
everything you've ever hoped for and more. When you have
feelings of doubt, ask yourself, "Why?"
Maybe you are afraid that you really are stronger than you
think—stronger than the rational mind will allow. You may
carry fear of failure, but behind this fear is an underlying
limiting belief. The belief is that you are undeserving or
unworthy. But the truth of the matter is that you are worthy.
You are powerful, and you do have the strength to discover
that power and to wield it with grace and honesty. It’s a good
thing to have doubt, not only because you acknowledge your
humility, but also because a deeper part of you recognizes the
tremendous power you hold within you. 
My favorite deﬁnition of Hell is: when you die, you meet
the version of you that you could have been. You meet that
higher version of you that could have achieved everything
you’ve ever wanted to achieve and you think, “Wow—there’s a
big gap between this me and the real me, and I wasted my
life.” I don’t want that for myself, for my son or for anyone.
So how do you avoid that? How do you avoid becoming a
has-been or a never-was in your own life? I don’t have all the
answers, but I think it goes a little something like this:
Imagine you're cleaning your garden. Your garden will
never be done. Leaves will always fall down, and plants will


===== PDF PAGE 175 ===== (images: 0: [])
The Work Continues
149
always die, but at some point you say, "Okay, maybe I'll work
in my garden for an hour." You work hard for the hour. You
get sweaty and hot and tired. Your garden is cleaner than
when you started, but it's not perfect. Then you take a break.
Maybe you soak in your hot tub and admire the work
you’ve done. You count the roses and the avocado trees and
think, “Man, how lucky am I to have this beautiful garden?”
And then you think, “Man, how lucky am I to be soaking in
this beautiful hot tub?”
The next day, you do it again—the gardening, the sweat‐
ing, the soaking, the admiration. Instead of feeling like this is a
burden—like it’s a punishment to have to weed your garden
every day—you think of it as a blessing. Because you’re
outside, the sun is shining, the air is fresh and with your own
two hands and your own open heart, you’re committed to
building something beautiful and to loving something enough
to devote yourself to its care.
To feel love ﬂow from your heart into the world and, in
turn, feel love ﬂow back from the world into your heart, like a
gentle wave crashing onto the sand before returning home to
the vast ocean.
To tend the ﬁre within your soul and then use it to change
the world. To change your world.
That, quite simply, is what it means to burn-in.
The role of the gallbladder is to store bile produced by the liver in its
liquid form. When your mouth eats fat, the gallbladder contracts to push
that liquid into the intestine and break down fats for easy absorption.
It is all ﬁne and dandy when things are going smoothly—when the
bile is ﬂuid and you’re going with the ﬂow. But if you are a gallbladder
and you are stagnant, you get attached to the bile and rather than pushing
it out, you hold on! You cling to the bile, and it sits, which creates little
stones over time. The stones try to ﬂow along with the liquid and pass


===== PDF PAGE 176 ===== (images: 1: [209])
150
BURN-IN
through the duct but instead end up blocking it, getting caught in the duct
and causing pain, inﬂammation, infection and even sometimes death.
Your conscious experience throughout life is one ﬂowing river, one
stream progressing in one direction: forward. If you try to cling to past
experiences, to cling to a boulder or rock in the river path, to hold on to
trauma, hatred, bitterness, resentfulness, anger, anxiety, fear and a victim
mentality, then you will suffer these pains any time the stone gets in the
way of the natural ﬂow of things.


===== PDF PAGE 177 ===== (images: 2: [211, 212])
The Work Continues
151
Hold on to resentment, and it is bitter. It will harden into stone such
that it blocks your path to happiness, the normal ﬂow of your energy,
causing you pain.
The key to ﬁnding bliss and joy in every moment is to let go. Even though
it hurts, pass the stone. Let it go and allow the river to ﬂow again.


===== PDF PAGE 178 ===== (images: 0: [])


===== PDF PAGE 179 ===== (images: 0: [])
Afterword
There is a different energy when you go from an inch deep
and a mile wide to an inch wide and a mile deep. When
maybe instead of having 5,000 Facebook friends, you have ﬁve
true friends you can call on anytime, day or night. Maybe you
read ﬁve books a year but read each one multiple times.
Maybe there’s one chapter in this book that jumped off
the page and grabbed you by the arms and shook you into
thinking about something in your life in a totally new way.
Maybe there’s another chapter that didn’t click for you.
That’s okay! My greatest wish for you and for your relation‐
ship with this book is that it’s a long and happy one, where you
feel like you can come back to it and come back to me as your
life changes, as your wants and needs change.
I hope that my wants and needs change, too. I hope I
never stop changing, actually—that I’m able to see the beauty
in change and growth. I’m not perfect and I never will be, and
I feel at peace with that statement in part because there was a
time when I didn’t know if that was the kind of statement I
could even make.


===== PDF PAGE 180 ===== (images: 2: [219, 216])
154
Afterword
This is just the beginning for me, and I hope it’s the beginning
for you, too! I’m honored that you took the time to read what
I have to say, and I’d love to continue this journey with you at
wealthbound.com, where the conversation on real estate
investing and what it can do for you is ongoing.
I’d also like to suggest some further reading that I’ve catego‐
rized using the pillars of WEALTH:


===== PDF PAGE 181 ===== (images: 0: [])
Afterword
155
Wealth
Money: Master the Game by Tony Robbins
Misbehaving by Richard H. Thaler
Principles by Ray Dalio
Secrets of The Millionaire Mind by T. Harv Ecker
The Snowball by Alice Schroeder
Elevation
Vivid Vision by Cameron Herold
Untethered Soul by Michael Singer
Siddhartha by Herman Hesse
The Vortex by Esther and Jerry Hicks
How to Change Your Mind by Michael Pollan
Action and Accountability
Tiny Habits by BJ Fogg
Loving What Is by Byron Katie
The Checklist Manifesto by Atul Gawande
Liminal Thinking by Dave Gray
Success Afﬁrmations by Jack Canﬁeld
Love
Keys to the Kingdom by Alison Armstrong
The 5 Love Languages by Gary Chapman
His Needs, Her Needs by Willard F. Harley Jr.
Out of the Doghouse by Robert Weiss
The Alchemist by Paulo Coelho


===== PDF PAGE 182 ===== (images: 0: [])
156
Afterword
Time
The 4-Hour Workweek by Tim Ferriss
The ONE Thing by Gary Keller
Blink by Malcolm Gladwell
Deep Work by Cal Newport
Who Not How by Dan Sullivan
Health
Be Here Now by Ram Dass
Opening the Door of Your Heart by Ajahn Brahm
The Power of Habit by Charles Duhigg
Essentialism by Greg McKeown
Karma: A Yogi's Guide to Crafting Your Destiny by Sadhguru
I also promised a TLDR for the nuggets I gave up front.
As you are graduating from this book, I have just three
goodies to go over:
Keep a Beginner’s Mind
This means to think about things as if you’re brand new, even
if you’ve been doing it for 30 years. Or just always think about
things in a new light. Yes, you need expertise and a framework
to think deeply about things—but that’s just the bare mini‐
mum. In medicine, I would say that it’s like just passing the
standard of care. But you’ll never be a great physician by
treating everyone like they’re a case in a textbook. Patients and
diseases do not read textbooks. There are rare presentations
of common diseases and common presentations of rare
diseases. So, learn it all and then go heal people.
Go beyond the protocols to see what will help that one
person in front of you. A complication rate may be one


===== PDF PAGE 183 ===== (images: 0: [])
Afterword
157
percent, but if it happens to you or to your patient, it is 100
percent for you or that patient. In real estate, the highest
volume ﬂippers and the people I know who found success the
fastest went out and hustled and crushed it. They ﬂipped 50
houses a month because they didn’t learn from somebody who
said that they typically do 50 houses a year. So, the new guys,
without the limits from dogma or from anybody else in the
industry getting mediocre results, went out and succeeded
because their mindset was free to explore doing things in a
bigger way.
For a long time, people thought it was impossible to run a
sub-four-minute mile. Then, as soon as one guy did it,
everyone else started doing it like it was no big deal. That ﬁrst
guy broke the barrier for everyone else and changed the
world’s mindset. As a health-care professional, if you keep an
open mind and a beginner’s attitude, you may see something
that doctors and nurses and administrators have seen for 30
years as a problem with no solution—and you might instantly
come up with a solution.
Be Kind
Be kind to yourself ﬁrst. I know all the negative things I’ve
ever spoken to myself in my head, so I can only imagine what
might be running through yours.
You want to know what it was like to be in my head
before? You’re fat. You’re short. You’re too Asian. You’re not Asian
enough. You don’t deserve to be here. Who said you could do that? What’s
wrong with you? Why can’t you do anything right? You’ll never be good
enough. You’re nothing. You’re trash. You’re scum. You deserve this horrible
situation you’re in. You’re ugly. Nobody will ever love you. Maybe it’d be
better if you were dead.
And then do you know what I said to other people? Some‐
times better, sometimes worse stuff.
You know what I used to do when someone would make a


===== PDF PAGE 184 ===== (images: 0: [])
158
Afterword
little mistake when driving and they’d cut me off, not see me
in the left lane or they were driving too slowly? I would gun it,
ﬂip them off, honk and brake check them before speeding off.
I used to sigh loudly and complain that some lady in front of
me had too many items in the grocery store. These things all
came from my ego and my selﬁshness. When you realize that
the guy or gal next to you actually is you, or at the very least is
deeply connected to you whether you know them or not, then
you’ll be okay.
My son may have cancer, but your son may have been
murdered. One is not better or worse than the other. It’s not a
competition. You don’t compare problems. You share grief so
that the load is lightened. You be a friend and show compas‐
sion to the stranger bawling on the ﬂoor because her child just
died. You go help the girl in front of the bar in downtown
Mountain View when she is too drunk and the idiots with her
are trying to call her an Uber when she needs an ambulance,
and you prevent her from getting raped or dying from alcohol
poisoning that night.
You see a woman who is running away from an abusive
man in the street, and you stop your car, take her somewhere
safe and call the cops. You see a young woman, mouth blood‐
ied, and waving down cars asking for help while running away
from her abusive boyfriend and you stop your car, take her
somewhere safe and call the cops. And in Texas, you can kick
the guy’s ass because you are acting as third-party self-defense,
but in California you would get arrested for doing that. Texas
may not have all of the best laws, but that’s a good one for
sure. I wish these were just examples from TV or movies, but
these have all happened to me or people close to me.
The point is this: our time on this earth is limited. You and
I and everyone we love will die one day. And it’s a beautiful
thing. I never thought about it before Adrian’s diagnosis, but
now I think about it a lot.


===== PDF PAGE 185 ===== (images: 0: [])
Afterword
159
There are some cool series that I would suggest you check
out on Netﬂix including one called Surviving Death. There are
many books where people describe near death experiences
(NDEs). I’m in many Facebook groups for physicians, and in
one of them, an experienced emergency room doctor asked if
anyone’s patients ever told these stories. Following that, maybe
1,000 comments and reactions came up. This was my
response to the skeptics and the believers alike:
“I’ll tell you what. Medicine and Western science cannot
explain it all. Your consciousness or soul or whatever you
want to call it does not go away when your physical form
dies. Your rational mind and ego will tell you it’s BS when
the patients come back and they see white light or feel
inﬁnite peace before they are shocked back into rhythm and
into their bodies again. Because there’s no scientiﬁc method
or theory or whatever to explain something on a plane we
don’t have the capacity to understand right now. In the
meantime, though, their soul/Self/Atman/whatever you
want to call it is liberated from the ﬂesh and they can see it
as it really is, if only for a moment. 
When they are pseudo-dead, they’re free from the
body, which has physical pains. As a human, you still have
to eat, drink, pee, poop. Your bones hurt as you age—my
patients tell me every day that I shouldn’t get old. I jokingly
reply that it beats the alternative, but now that I think about
it, I will stop saying that. Because it probably doesn’t.
There’s no understanding the feeling of inﬁnitely being a
part of the universe unless you’ve experienced it yourself.
Or meditated your way there. Or whatever your path was to
this understanding. 
At this point you should realize that while you may think
you’re hot shit and know it all as a doctor, the truth is you
don’t. You have a limited view of the world from your own


===== PDF PAGE 186 ===== (images: 0: [])
160
Afterword
two eyes, however open you have them—and however open
your mind is, too. And nobody has all the answers. It is
when we put them all together and see it from every angle
simultaneously that we can truly see it. And that happens
when you die or leave your body or whatever. 
When we understand this, when we stay humble and
recognize we don’t know it all, then we can be better
doctors. And we can serve patients with unlimited
compassion. And we can heal ourselves and the whole
world. 
Death is something not to be feared the way that most
do. How many patients are clinging to life on a vent with no
quality of life and how many docs and nurses and hospitals
are a party to this clinging to a dying physical form? I know
when I die, if I can choose to, I want to not be hanging on
to anything. I don’t want anyone to guilt me into hanging
out for another hour so they can see me intubated and
sedated, and I can’t get out of the bed to poop for myself. 
Our time on earth is limited. Maybe it’s 100 years,
maybe it’s tomorrow. So don’t waste time being upset and
burned out and a jerk to other people. I’ve been there: it’s a
waste of the precious life we’ve been granted here. My son
is ﬁghting for his life at two years old with a rare kidney
cancer called clear cell sarcoma of the kidney. Think Wilms
tumor, but more aggressive with a more aggressive
treatment in terms of adjuvant radiation and chemo. I think
about death a lot. 
I also think about what it means to be a great doctor a
lot. 
I’m super open to these ideas that the patients tell us
when they die and come back. It’s like a sacred space they
enter, and they can share this knowledge with us that we
otherwise would not get a chance to learn about, unless we
die or almost die ourselves.


===== PDF PAGE 187 ===== (images: 0: [])
Afterword
161
People came out of the woodwork after I posted this. Dr.
Elizabeth Gnagy DO, a physician board certiﬁed in Psychiatry
and Addiction Medicine, messaged me afterward, telling me
that my comments helped her process the loss of her son.
During the ﬁrst week of school in August 2016, 13-year-
old Jacob Scott was walking to the bus stop when he was hit
by a car; the driver had been blinded by the sunlight that day.
Jacob’s death was a tragic loss for his family and seems
nonsensical to us as human beings; however, in death, he was
able to serve others as an organ donor.
Jacob saved the lives of two other teenaged boys, a 13-
year-old and 17-year-old, with his kidneys, as well as an adult
with his liver and another adult with his heart. Yes, it is
horrible that he lost his life, but we must also consider what an
incredible gift of life to those other four beautiful human
beings who also deserved to live!
When you zoom out of the situation, you can see that the
loss of life is excruciatingly painful to Jacob's family while
simultaneously bringing exponential gratitude and life to
others with a leveraged impact. The loss of one life touches
the lives of so many others with both sorrow and joy.
It is comments like these that tell me I am headed in the
right direction. We all carry a little voice inside of us—it is
called intuition. When we listen, we will be safe. And our
inner light will guide the way.
Think Critically, For Yourself
When I was in medical school, I was taught to not inject lido‐
caine with epinephrine into acral sites like a digit, nasal tip,
ear, penis and so on out of fear that the vasoconstriction
would cause necrosis. This was echoed by my fellowship
director in Mohs micrographic surgery. People still think this
all the time and will use plain lidocaine, which is way worse
because you don’t get the hemostatic effect of epinephrine


===== PDF PAGE 188 ===== (images: 0: [])
162
Afterword
during surgery, you can’t safely use as much medication
because of lidocaine toxicity and now you’re operating in a
ﬁeld where it pools with blood all the time.
Did you know that this fear is pure dogma, passed down
from generation to generation of doctors with no real data
behind it? In fact, the plastic surgeon Donald Lalonde
performed pivotal studies that demonstrated the super clear
safety of using lidocaine with epinephrine anywhere.
There are countless other examples in medicine. In every
textbook you read for a melanocytic lesion, the answer to the
question, “How should one sample this spot?” is excisional
biopsy. I will tell you probably 99.9 percent of board-certiﬁed
dermatologists will do a deep shave when they’re concerned
about malignant melanoma. Yes, I have heard horror stories
of doctors who didn’t know what they were doing harming
patients by doing incomplete biopsies. These are not the
people who should be biopsying! A board-certiﬁed dermatolo‐
gist is for sure the one to shave your melanoma. Just don’t do it
yourself, and don’t let an unqualiﬁed person do it. There
doesn’t need to be this insane rift between plastic surgeons and
dermatologists with regard to this “controversy.”
Another derm-related thing is Accutane (isotretinoin), the
acne curing medicine, which was and is still thought by many
to create poor wound healing. Surgeons and doctors in
general are afraid to operate on someone who’s recently
ﬁnished Accutane. If you can ﬁnd me a good study demon‐
strating this, then I will gladly wait six months to do anything
for my patients who have just ﬁnished Accutane. Until then, I
suspect that this, too, is dogma, based on some theoretical
paper in the ‘70s with a hypothesis that istotretinoin inhibits
the follicular units and thus inhibits wound healing. Prove me
wrong. I’m waiting.
It has been my sincere pleasure presenting this to you. I
hope you ﬁnd this book worthy of re-reading, and we become
friends.


===== PDF PAGE 189 ===== (images: 2: [230, 229])
Afterword
163
Aho. Namaste. Peace be with you. Safe travels.
Patrick, Dr. Tran


===== PDF PAGE 190 ===== (images: 0: [])


===== PDF PAGE 191 ===== (images: 0: [])
Acknowledgments
Family: To my wife, Alicia, for teaching me that there is no
limit to love and compassion. To my son, Adrian, for showing
me the meaning of life, teaching me how to put others before
myself and reminding me to ﬁnd Grace through every chal‐
lenge. To my Vietnamese refugee parents, Myngoc and Chi,
for showing me the value of a strong work ethic and for ﬁnan‐
cially, emotionally and spiritually supporting my extensive
education. To my big Sea Star, Natalie, the Kindergarten
teacher, for teaching me to break down complex concepts to
explain as if to a ﬁve-year-old. To my little brudder Eric, the
musician and pianist, who taught me to follow my dreams,
and for listening to Mom to become a doctor, only not the
kind she expected.
GoBundance: Matt O for getting me into GoBundance and
JDC; Jason Drees for the key phrase; Brodie Whitney for
coaching me through some of life’s inevitable struggles; Darryl
Putnam for his support as a fellow writer; Jake Harris for his
endless ideas and connections; Derek Clifford for sharing
many author resources with me; Tom Burns who blessed me


===== PDF PAGE 192 ===== (images: 0: [])
with time and support as a fellow physician and author;
Chong Foo, you’re in the book, dude, check it out! Darren
McMahon thanks so much bud for your advice and support!
To Huy Le, for being a great role model not only as a fellow
Vietnamese doctor who promotes physical ﬁtness, but also an
entrepreneur and chicken farmer—everyone that’s not vegan,
go eat more chicken! Thanks to the rest of the NorCal tribe,
Aaron West, Joe Martin, Calvin Chin, Wilson Leung, Ryan
Stenberg, John Lockwood, Chris Dunham, Larry Chan, Dale
Corpus, Aaron Nelson, Tariel Gusseinov, Beau Eckstein, Tony
Trinh, Cliff Tsang, David Greene and whoever else—don’t
cry if I didn’t put your name up because I’m only human and
I still love you.
Special shout out to Daniel Del Real—you are one of my
best friends and I feel so grateful and honored to know you.
Thanks for reading the manuscript in one fell swoop on your
ﬂight from Colorado to California and thanks for helping my
family get into the house we deserve to live in. You’re amazing
and I cherish having you as a friend. To Brett Levine, for
essentially adopting me into your family and helping out this
younger doc—thanks for being a gracious host and allowing
me to crash at your place while recording the audiobook.
Book Team: To Jaime Hope for your support as a fellow doc
and introducing me to my publisher. Anna David and the
entire crew for believing in me and prioritizing my story.
Angela Serratore for her amazing writing—we’re going to the
moon! Kaitlin for project management. Thanks to Onur
Aksoy for not the cover I wanted (at ﬁrst!), but the cover I
needed.
Also thanks to Amanda Zieba the Word Nerd for helping
me take my ﬁrst steps as a writer before this book and helping
me execute my ﬁrst book ever: The Tran Hammer Method, which
is an intuitive way to solving the Rubik’s Cube without memo‐
rizing a ton of algorithms.


===== PDF PAGE 193 ===== (images: 0: [])
SmartVA: Thanks to Kristi Yoder for creating an amazing
company, to Karen Pusta my weekday EA, Mama Rica my
weekend VA and Regine my accounts manager who helps me
through you; Laurice for project management, Ann for
indulging my social media post ideas, Joselle for logos, both
Joshuas, Adrian Dy for having a cool name and doing my
websites, Diane for bookkeeping and the whole army for
allowing me to channel my passionate energy.
Meditation: To Dina, for teaching me to sit within myself and
go deeper. To Dana Marin, for unlocking inﬁnite joy during
meditation circle. To Vika, for teaching me grounding tech‐
niques and for reminding me that the loving awareness I feel
during retreats is something that I carry with me always in my
heart. To Paul Makielski, for the realization that the ultimate
version of me is a pure vessel of love. To Cyber Chuck, for
being there for me when I felt so up in the air and for the
phrase, “He gets it!”
CSI: Thanks to Greg Morganroth for the incredible surgical
training and for being a mentor and role model in business.
To Dr. Kristelle Lusby, for going to bat for me when I was still
an integrated plastic surgery resident and you were my chief
resident; also for telling me to come train at the place where I
love to work now. To Dr. Rossitza Lazova, for your world class
dermatopathology expertise, always answering my texts
promptly and helping me write my upcoming textbook. To
everyone at California Skin Institute, from management to
back ofﬁce to front ofﬁce, thank you for the love you have
shown me during a trying time for my family. To all my
patients who have inspired me with love and shown me the
value of time, peace and gratitude.
Kaiser: To Dr. Yamout, for getting Adrian’s cancer out en
bloc, keeping it stage II and not seeding tumor through the


===== PDF PAGE 194 ===== (images: 0: [])
rest of his body and to Dr. Beleneski for being ﬁrst assist.
Thanks for your compassion and expert explanation which
was helpful not only to myself as a surgeon but as a father and
a patient. Our interaction has changed the way I practice
medicine, and I will never take for granted the faith placed in
me by my patients and their families when I do a big surgery
like a forehead ﬂap to reconstruct an entire nose that was lost
to a nasty skin cancer.
To Dr. Jason Kelley, for explaining the rationale for radi‐
ating across the spine to avoid scoliosis, but at the cost of an
inch or two of height. For Precious, for amazing care and
coordination.
To the other Dr. Tran (Hung), Adrian’s primary pediatric
oncologist; to Dr. Laura Campbell for her encouragement of
my charitable endeavors; to Caroline Hu, Maria Marufﬁ, Lisa
Goodman, John Kim and the entire team at Kaiser Oakland
for caring for my precious son. To APIC Jorge Guttierez for
accepting my loving mother’s many calls. To the residents,
including Krista Roberts, good luck with the rest of your resi‐
dency and thank you for validating my efforts—I hope this
book helps you and many of your colleagues. Thank you,
Marta Calvo, for coordinating Adrian’s care so carefully. To
the Children’s Oncology Group, including Dr. Elizabeth
Mullen, for your incredible research on renal tumors and
caring for kiddos with rare diseases.
To all the incredible nurses, but especially Miss Dorothy,
Miss Jean, Miss Charlene. Also to Hing for feeding us yummy
treats. To Jean Quigley, who educated us at the beginning on
the whole chemo plan and for demonstrating the injection of
GCSF by literally stabbing yourself in the arm with a clean
needle when you really didn’t need to do that.
El resto: To all my instructors in life from extra-curricular to
school, from kindergarten teachers at St. Leo’s who sent me


===== PDF PAGE 195 ===== (images: 0: [])
home with brown apples on the color scheme every day (for
reference red is good, followed by green, then yellow, then my
speciality) through the 25th grade. To all the people who ever
gave me a hand and taught me something when they didn’t
have to.
To Drs. Adam Cohen and Bill Sando, for sharing your
wisdom with me as plastic surgeons a bit ahead of me in life
when I was just an intern.
To the random guy whose car I rear-ended on the freeway
after slamming my brakes in the rain while driving from
Indiana to Virginia when I was switching over from plastic
surgery residency to dermatology and who didn’t ask me my
insurance, just made sure his trunk worked and went along his
day—thank you for that. To all the cops who ever pulled me
over for little things and didn’t give me a ticket because I really
wasn’t hurting anyone. To the random-act-of-kindness
stranger who put some quarters in the parking meter that I
forgot to pay on a Saturday in Berkeley and saved me a $40
ticket from the meter maids.
In memory of Paul DeWolf, my medical school classmate,
you are missed and loved. To his mother Kris, sister Rebekah
and father Thom for their kind words and special review of
my book.
To Chris and Danielle Davis, thanks for helping us with
our home and hair during a tough time for my family. To
Chris and Tony Sims, thanks for the beautiful new shower and
for being ﬂexible in supporting our family during this journey.
To Bulmaro and Gio Marquez, for getting the pool from
green to clean and keeping it that way. To Frank Natale, my
ﬁsh guy and friend. To George Lee, for the beautiful ancient
stone necklace and bracelets you crafted for me to match my
high energy while grounding and protecting me. To all our
neighbors who show us love by checking in on us and allowing
Adrian to trespass on your property to talk to your trees and


===== PDF PAGE 196 ===== (images: 0: [])
pick your ﬂowers. To my many friends and family, too
numerous to count, who were kind enough to read the
manuscript, to inspire me, to support and love me during this
incredible journey.


===== PDF PAGE 197 ===== (images: 0: [])
About the Author
Dr. Patrick Tran is one of the only dermatologic surgeons in
the Central Valley of California with fellowship training in
Mohs micrographic surgery.
He graduated summa cum laude from the University of
California, Berkeley with a degree in Molecular and Cell
Biology and has published articles in numerous peer-reviewed
journals, including JAMA Dermatology, Plastic and Reconstructive
Surgery, Plastic Surgery and Journal of Dermatological Science.
He has delivered presentations nationally at the American
Academy of Dermatology and regionally at the Washington
D.C. Dermatological Society and the California Society of
Plastic Surgery.
His program for doctors looking to leverage their income,
Wealthbound, launched in September 2021. Burn-In is his
second book.


===== PDF PAGE 198 ===== (images: 0: [])


===== PDF PAGE 199 ===== (images: 1: [241])


===== PDF PAGE 200 ===== (images: 0: [])
